TaxoGen: Unsupervised Topic Taxonomy Construction by
Adaptive Term Embedding and Clustering
Chao Zhang1 , Fangbo Tao2 , Xiusi Chen3 , Jiaming Shen1 , Meng Jiang4 ,
Brian Sadler5 , Michelle Vanni5 , and Jiawei Han1

1 Dept. of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA
2 Facebook Inc., Menlo Park, CA, USA

3 Dept. of Computer Science and Technology, Peking University, Beijing, China

arXiv:1812.09551v1 [cs.DB] 22 Dec 2018

4 Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA
5 U.S. Army Research Laboratory, Adelphi, MD, USA

1 {czhang82, js2, hanj}@illinois.edu 2 fangbo.tao@gmail.com 3 xiusi0721@gmail.com
4 mjiang2@nd.edu 5 {brian.m.sadler6.civ, michelle.t.vanni.civ}@mail.mil

Computer Science

ABSTRACT
Taxonomy construction is not only a fundamental task for semantic
analysis of text corpora, but also an important step for applications
such as information filtering, recommendation, and Web search.
Existing pattern-based methods extract hypernym-hyponym term
pairs and then organize these pairs into a taxonomy. However, by
considering each term as an independent concept node, they overlook the topical proximity and the semantic correlations among
terms. In this paper, we propose a method for constructing topic
taxonomies, wherein every node represents a conceptual topic and
is defined as a cluster of semantically coherent concept terms. Our
method, TaxoGen, uses term embeddings and hierarchical clustering to construct a topic taxonomy in a recursive fashion. To ensure
the quality of the recursive process, it consists of: (1) an adaptive
spherical clustering module for allocating terms to proper levels
when splitting a coarse topic into fine-grained ones; (2) a local
embedding module for learning term embeddings that maintain
strong discriminative power at different levels of the taxonomy. Our
experiments on two real datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of
TaxoGen compared with baseline methods.
ACM Reference Format:
Chao Zhang1 , Fangbo Tao2 , Xiusi Chen3 , Jiaming Shen1 , Meng Jiang4 , Brian
Sadler5 , Michelle Vanni5 , and Jiawei Han1 . 2018. TaxoGen: Unsupervised
Topic Taxonomy Construction by Adaptive Term Embedding and Clustering.
In KDD 2018: 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge
Discovery & Data Mining, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom.
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3219819.3220064

1

INTRODUCTION

Automatic taxonomy construction from a text corpus is a fundamental task for semantic analysis of text data and plays an important
role in many applications. For example, organizing a massive news
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
KDD 2018, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
© 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-5552-0/18/08. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3219819.3220064

computer_science
computation_time
algorithm
computation
computation_approach

Machine Learning

Information Retrieval

…

machine_learning
learning_algorithms
clustering
reinforcement_learning
classification

information_retrieval
ir
information_filtering
text_retrieval
retrieval_eﬀectiveness

…

Figure 1: An example topic taxonomy. Each node is a cluster of semantically coherent concept terms representing a
conceptual topic.

corpus into a well-structured taxonomy allows users to quickly
navigate to their interested topics and easily acquire useful information. As another example, many recommender systems involve
items with textual descriptions, and a taxonomy for these items
can help the system better understand user interests to make more
accurate recommendations [33].
Existing methods mostly generate a taxonomy wherein each
node is a single term representing an independent concept [14, 19].
They use pre-defined lexico-syntactic patterns (e.g., A such as B,
A is a B) to extract hypernym-hyponym term pairs, and then organize these pairs into a concept taxonomy by considering each
term as a node. Although they can achieve high precision for the
extracted hypernym-hyponym pairs, considering each term as an
independent concept node causes three critical problems to the
taxonomy: (1) low coverage: Since term correlations are not considered, only the pairs exactly matching the pre-defined patterns
are extracted, which leads to low coverage of the result taxonomy.
(2) high redundancy: As one concept can be expressed in different
ways, the taxonomy is highly redundant because many nodes are
just different expressions of the same concept (e.g., ‘information
retrieval’ and ‘ir’). (3) limited informativeness: Representing a node
with a single term provides limited information about the concept
and causes ambiguity.

We study the problem of topic taxonomy construction from an
input text corpus. In contrast to term-level taxonomies, each node
in our topic taxonomy represents a conceptual topic, defined as a
cluster of semantically coherent concept terms. Figure 1 shows an
example. Given a collection of computer science research papers,
we build a tree-structured hierarchy. The root node is the general
topic ‘computer science’, which is further split into sub-topics like
‘machine learning’ and ‘information retrieval’. For every topical
node, we describe it with multiple concept terms that are semantically relevant. For instance, for the ‘information retrieval’ node,
its associated terms include not only synonyms of ‘information
retrieval’ (e.g., ‘ir’), but also different facets of the IR area (e.g., ‘text
retrieval’ and ‘retrieval effectiveness’).
We propose an unsupervised method named TaxoGen for constructing topic taxonomies. It embeds the concept terms into a
latent space to capture their semantics, and uses term embeddings
to recursively construct the taxonomy based on hierarchical clustering. While the idea of combining term embedding and hierarchical
clustering is intuitive by itself, two key challenges need to be addressed for building high-quality taxonomies. First, it is nontrivial
to determine the proper granularity levels for different concept terms.
When splitting a coarse topical node into fine-grained ones, not all
the concept terms should be pushed down to the child level. For
example, when splitting the computer science topic in Figure 1,
general terms like ‘cs’ and ‘computer science’ should remain in the
parent instead of being allocated into any child topics. Therefore, it
is problematic to directly group parent terms to form child topics,
but necessary to allocate different terms to different levels. Second,
global embeddings have limited discriminative power at lower levels.
Term embeddings are typically learned by collecting the context
evidence from the corpus, such that terms sharing similar contexts
tend to have close embeddings. However, as we move down in
the hierarchy, the term embeddings learned based on the entire
corpus have limited power in capturing subtle semantics. For example, when splitting the machine learning topic, the terms ‘machine
learning’ and ‘reinforcement learning’ have close global embeddings, and it is hard to discover quality sub-topics for the machine
learning topic.
TaxoGen consists of two modules for tackling the above challenges. The first is an adaptive spherical clustering module for
allocating terms to proper levels when splitting a coarse topic. Relying on a ranking function that measures the representativeness
of different terms to each child topic, the clustering module iteratively detects general terms that should remain in the parent topic
and keeps refining the clustering boundaries of the child topics.
The second is a local term embedding module. To enhance the discriminative power of term embeddings at lower levels, TaxoGen
employs an existing technique [13] that uses topic-relevant documents to learn local embeddings for the terms in each topic. The
local embeddings capture term semantics at a finer granularity and
are less constrained by the terms irrelevant to the topic. As such,
they are discriminative enough to separate the terms with different
semantics even at lower levels of the taxonomy.
We perform extensive experiments on two real data sets. Our
qualitative results show that TaxoGen can generate high-quality
topic taxonomies, and our quantitative analysis based on user study
shows that TaxoGen outperforms baseline methods significantly.

2

RELATED WORK

In this section, we review existing taxonomy construction methods,
including (1) pattern-based methods, (2) clustering-based methods,
and (3) supervised methods.

2.1

Pattern-Based Methods

A considerable number of pattern-based methods have been proposed to construct hypernym-hyponym taxonomies wherein each
node in the tree is an entity, and each parent-child pair expresses
the “is-a” relation. Typically, these works first use pre-defined lexical patterns to extract hypernym-hyponym pairs from the corpus,
and then organize all the extracted pairs into a taxonomy tree. In
pioneering studies, Hearst patterns like “NP such as NP, NP, and
NP” were proposed to automatically acquire hyponymy relations
from text data [14]. Then more kinds of lexical patterns have been
manually designed and used to extract relations from the web corpus [24, 26] or Wikipedia [12, 25]. With the development of the
Snowball framework, researchers teach machines how to propagate knowledge among the massive text corpora using statistical
approaches [1, 34]; Carlson et al. proposed a learning architecture
for Never-Ending Language Learning (NELL) in 2010 [5]. PATTY
leveraged parsing structures to derive relational patterns with semantic types and organizes the patterns into a taxonomy [23]. The
recent MetaPAD [15] used context-aware phrasal segmentation to
generate quality patterns and group synonymous patterns together
for a large collection of facts. Pattern-based methods have demonstrated their effectiveness in finding particular relations based on
hand-crafted rules or generated patterns. However, they are not
suitable for constructing a topic taxonomy because of two reasons.
First, different from hypernym-hyponym taxonomies, each node in
a topic taxonomy can be a group of terms representing a conceptual
topic. Second, pattern-based methods often suffer from low recall
due to the large variation of expressions in natural language on
parent-child relations.

2.2

Clustering-Based Methods

A great number of clustering methods have been proposed for constructing taxonomy from text corpus. These methods are more
closely related to our problem of constructing a topic taxonomy.
Generally, the clustering approaches first learn the representation
of words or terms and then organize them into a structure based
on their representation similarity [3] and cluster separation measures [8]. Fu et al. identified whether a candidate word pair has
hypernym-hyponym (“is-a”) relation by using the word-embeddingbased semantic projections between words and their hypernyms
[11]. Luu et al. proposed to use dynamic weighting neural network
to identify taxonomic relations via learning term embeddings [20].
Our method differs from these existing ones in two aspects. First,
we do not need labeled hypernym-hyponym pairs as supervision
for learning either semantic projections or dynamic weighting neural network. Second, we employ a technique called local embedding
[13] to learn embeddings for each topic using only topic-relevant
documents. The local embedding technique was first proposed by
Gui et al. [13]. It captures fine-grained term semantics with a local
corpus and thus well separates terms with subtle semantic differences. On the term organizing end, Ciniano et al. used a comparative

measure to perform conceptual, divisive, and agglomerative clustering for taxonomy learning [6]. Yang et al. also used an ontology
metric, a score indicating semantic distance, to induce taxonomy
[31]. Liu et al. used Bayesian rose tree to hierarchically cluster a
given set of keywords into a taxonomy [18]. Wang et al. adopted a
recursive way to construct topic hierarchies by clustering domain
keyphrases [28]. Also, quite a number of hierarchical topic models
have been proposed for term organization [4, 10, 22]. In our TaxoGen, we develop an adaptive spherical clustering module to allocate
terms into proper levels when we split a coarse topic. The module
well groups terms of the same topic together and separates child
topics (as term clusters) with significant distances.

2.3

Supervised Methods

There have also been (semi-)supervised learning methods for taxonomy construction [16, 17]. Basically these methods extract lexical
features and learn a classifier that categorizes term pairs into relations or non-relations, based on curated training data of hypernymhyponym pairs [7, 18, 27, 31], or syntactic contextual information
harvested from NLP tools [19, 30]. Recent techniques [2, 11, 20, 29,
32] in this category leverage pre-trained word embeddings and then
use curated hypernymy relation datasets to learn a relation classifier. However, the training data for all these methods are limited
to extracting hypernym-hyponym relations and cannot be easily
adapted for constructing a topic taxonomy. Furthermore, for massive domain-specific text data (like scientific publication data we
used in this work), it is hardly possible to collect a rich set of supervised information from experts. Therefore, we focus on technical
developments in unsupervised taxonomy construction.

3

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION

The input for constructing a topic taxonomy includes two parts: (1)
a corpus D of documents; and (2) a set T of seed terms. The seed
terms in T are the key terms from D, representing the terms of
interest for taxonomy construction1 . Given the corpus D and the
term set T , we aim to build a tree-structured hierarchy H . Each
node C ∈ H denotes a conceptual topic, which is described by
a set of terms TC ∈ T that are semantically coherent. Suppose
a node C has a set of children SC = {S 1 , S 2 , . . . , S N }, then each
Sn (1 ≤ n ≤ N ) should be a sub-topic of C, and have the same
semantic granularity with its siblings in SC .

4

THE TAXOGEN METHOD

In this section, we describe our proposed TaxoGen method. We
first give an overview of it in Section 4.1. Then we introduce the
details of the adaptive spherical clustering and local embedding
modules in Section 4.2 and 4.3, respectively.

4.1

Method Overview

In a nutshell, TaxoGen embeds all the concept terms into a latent
space to capture their semantics, and uses the term embeddings
to build the taxonomy recursively. As shown in Figure 2, at the
top level, we initialize a root node containing all the terms from
T , which represents the most general topic for the given corpus
1 The term set can be either specified by end users or extracted from the corpus. In our

experiments, we extract frequent noun phrases from D to form the term set T .

D. Starting from the root node, we generate fine-grained topics
level by level via top-down spherical clustering. The top-down
construction process continues until a maximum number of levels
Lmax is reached.
Given a topic C, we use spherical clustering to split C into a set
of fine-grained topics SC = {S 1 , S 2 , . . . , S N }. As mentioned earlier,
there are two challenges that need to be addressed in the resursive
construction process: (1) when splitting a topic C, it is problematic
to directly divide the terms in C into sub-topics, because general
terms should remain in the parent topic C instead of being allocated
to any sub-topics; (2) when we move down to lower levels, global
term embeddings learned on the entire corpus are inadequate for
capturing subtle term semantics. In the following, we introduce the
adaptive clustering and local embedding modules in TaxoGen for
addressing these two challenges.

4.2

Adaptive Spherical Clustering

The adaptive clustering module in TaxoGen is designed to split a
coarse topic C into fine-grained ones. It is based on the spherical
K-means algorithm [9], which groups a given set of term embeddings into K clusters such that the terms in the same cluster have
similar embedding directions. Our choice of the spherical K-means
algorithm is motivated by the effectiveness of the cosine similarity [21] in quantifying the similarities between word embeddings.
The center direction of a topic acts as a semantic focus on the unit
sphere, and the member terms of that topic falls around the center
direction to represent a coherent semantic meaning.
4.2.1 The adaptive clustering process. Given a coarse topic C,
a straightforward idea for generating the sub-topics of C is to directly apply spherical K-means to C, such that the terms in C are
grouped into K clusters to form C’s sub-topics. Nevertheless, such a
straightforward strategy is problematic because not all the terms in
C should be allocated into the child topics. For example, in Figure
2, when splitting the root topic of computer science, terms like
‘computer science’ and ‘cs’ are general — they do not belong to any
specific child topics but instead should remain in the parent. Furthermore, the existence of such general terms makes the clustering
process more challenging. As such general terms can co-occur with
various contexts in the corpus, their embeddings tend to fall on the
boundaries of different sub-topics. Thus, the clustering structure
for the sub-topics is blurred, making it harder to discover clear
sub-topics.
Motivated by the above, we propose an adaptive clustering module in TaxoGen. As shown in Figure 2, the key idea is to iteratively
identify general terms and refine the sub-topics after pushing general terms back to the parent. Identifying general terms and refining
child topics are two operations that can mutually enhance each
other: excluding the general terms in the clustering process can
make the boundaries of the sub-topics clearer; while the refined
sub-topics boundaries enable detecting additional general terms.
Algorithm 1 shows the process for adaptive spherical clustering.
As shown, given a parent topic C, it first puts all the terms of C into
the sub-topic term set Csub . Then it iteratively identifies general
terms and refines the sub-topics. In each iteration, it computes
the representativeness score of a term t for the sub-topic Sk , and
excludes t if its representativeness is smaller than a threshold δ .

retrieval
CS

CG

computer
science

ML

Clustering

IR

Classification

recursive construction

classification

ir

machine
learning

classification

machine
learning

clustering

computer vision

adaptive spherical clustering

local embedding

Figure 2: An overview of TaxoGen. It uses term embeddings to construct the taxonomy in a top-down manner, with two novel
components for ensuring the quality of the resursive process: (1) an adaptive clustering module that allocates terms to proper
topic nodes; and (2) a local embedding module for learning term embeddings on topic-relevant documents (courtesy of [13]).
Algorithm 1: Adaptive clustering for topic splitting.
Input: A parent topic C; the number of sub-topics K; the
term representativeness threshold δ .
Output: K sub-topics of C.
1 C sub ← C;
2 while True do
3
S 1 , S 2 , . . . , S K ← Spherical-Kmeans(Csub , K);
4
for k from 1 to K do
5
for t ∈ Sk do
6
r (t, Sk ) ← representativeness of term t for Sk ;
7
if r (t, Sk ) < δ then
8
Sk ← Sk − {t };
9
10
11

′
Csub
← S1 ∪ S2 ∪ . . . ∪ SK ;
′
if Csub
= Csub then
Break;

12

′ ;
Csub ← Csub

13

Return S 1 , S 2 , . . . , S K ;

After pushing up general terms, it re-forms the sub-topic term set
Csub and prepares for the next spherical clustering operation. The
iterative process terminates when no more general terms can be
detected, and the final set of sub-topics S 1 , S 2 , . . . , S K are returned.
4.2.2 Measuring term representativeness. In Algorithm 1, the key
question is how to measure the representativeness of a term t for a
sub-topic Sk . While it is tempting to measure the representativeness
of t by its closeness to the center of Sk in the embedding space, we
find such a strategy is unreliable: general terms may also fall close
to the cluster center of Sk , which renders the embedding-based
detector inaccurate.
Our insight for addressing this problem is that, a representative
term for Sk should appear frequently in Sk but not in the sibling
topics of Sk . We hence measure term representativeness using the
documents that belong to Sk . Based on the cluster memberships
of terms, we first use the TF-IDF scheme to obtain the documents
belonging to each topic Sk . With these Sk -related documents, we
consider the following two factors for computing the representativeness of a term t for topic Sk :

• Popularity: A representative term for Sk should appear
frequently in the documents of Sk .
• Concentration: A representative term for Sk should be
much more relevant to Sk compared to the sibling topics
of Sk .
To combine the above two factors, we notice that they should
have conjunctive conditions, namely a representative term should
be both popular and concentrated for Sk . Thus we define the representativeness of term t for topic Sk as
p
r (t, Sk ) = pop(t, Sk ) · con(t, Sk )
(1)
where pop(t, Sk ) and con(t, Sk ) are the popularity and concentration
scores of t for Sk . Let Dk denotes the documents belonging to Sk ,
we define pop(t, Sk ) as the normalized frequency of t in Dk :
pop(t, Sk ) =

log(t f (t, Dk ) + 1)
,
log t f (Dk )

where t f (t, Dk ) is number of occurrences of term t in Dk , and
t f (Dk ) is the total number of tokens in Dk .
To compute the concentration score, we first form a pseudo document D k for each sub-topic Sk by concatenating all the documents
in Dk . Then we define the concentration of term t on Sk based on
its relevance to the pseudo document D k :
con(t, Sk ) =

1+

exp(rel(t, D k ))
Í
,
exp(rel(t, D j ))

1≤j ≤K

where rel(p, D k ) is the BM25 relevance of term t to the pseudo
document D k .
Example 4.1. Figure 2 shows the adaptive clustering process for
splitting the computer science topic into three sub-topics: computer
graphics (CG), machine learning (ML), and information retrieval
(IR). Given a sub-topic, for example ML, terms (e.g., ‘clustering’,
‘classificiation’) that are popular and concentrated in this cluster
receive high representativeness scores. In contrast, terms (e.g., ‘computer science’) that are not representative for any sub-topics are
considered as general terms and pushed back to the parent.

4.3

Local Embedding [13]

The recursive taxonomy construction process of TaxoGen relies
on term embeddings, which encode term semantics by learning

fixed-size vector representations for the terms. We use the SkipGram model [21] for learning term embeddings. Given a corpus,
SkipGram models the relationship between a term and its context
terms in a sliding window, such that the terms that share similar
contexts tend to have close embeddings in the latent space. The
result embeddings can well capture the semantics of different terms
and been demonstrated useful for various NLP tasks.
Formally, given a corpus D, for any token t, we consider a sliding
window centered at t and use Wt to denote the tokens appearing
in the context window. Then we define the log-probability of observing the contextual terms as
Õ
Õ
vt v ′
log p(Wt |t) =
log p(w |t) =
log Í w ′
vt vw ′
w ∈Wt

w ∈Wt

w ′ ∈V
′
where vt is the embedding for term t, vw is the contextual embed-

ding for the term w, and V is the vocabulary of the corpus D. Then
the overall objective function of SkipGram is defined over all the
tokens in D, namely
Õ Õ
L=
log p(w |t),
t ∈ D w ∈Wt

and the term embeddings can be learned by maximizing the objective with stochastic gradient descent and negative sampling [21].
However, when we use the term embeddings trained on the
entire corpus D for taxonomy construction, one drawback is that
these global embeddings have limited discriminative power at lower
levels. Let us consider the term ‘reinforcement learning’ in Figure
2. In the entire corpus D, it shares a lot of similar contexts with
the term ‘machine learning’, and thus has an embedding close to
‘machine learning’ in the latent space. The proximity with ‘machine
learning’ makes it successfully assigned into the machine learning
topic when we are splitting the root topic. Nevertheless, as we
move down to split the machine learning topic, the embeddings
of ‘reinforcement learning’ and other machine learning terms are
entangled together, making it difficult to discover sub-topics for
machine learning.
As introduced in [13], local embedding is able to capture the
semantic information of terms at finer granularity. Therefore, we
employ it to enhance the discriminative power of term embeddings
at lower levels of the taxonomy. Here we describe how to use it
for obtaining discriminative embeddings for the taxonomy construction task. For any topic C that is not the root topic, we learn
local term embeddings for splitting C. Specifically, we first create a
sub-corpus DC from D that is relevant to the topic C. To obtain
the sub-corpus DC , we employ the following two strategies: (1)
Clustering-based. We derive the cluster membership of each document d ∈ D by aggregating the cluster memberships of the terms
in d using TF-IDF weight. The documents that are clustered into
topic C are collected to form the sub-corpus DC . (2) Retrieval-based.
We compute the embedding of any document d ∈ D using TF-IDF
weighted average of the term embeddings in d. Based on the obtained document embeddings, we use the mean direction of the
topic C as a query vector to retrieve the top-M closest documents
and form the sub-corpus DC . In practice, we use the first strategy
as the main one to obtain DC , and apply the second strategy for
expansion if the clustering-based subcorpus is not large enough.
Once the sub-corpus DC is retrieved, we apply the SkipGram model

to the sub-corpus DC to obtain term embeddings that are tailored
for splitting the topic C.
Example 4.2. Consider Figure 2 as an example, when splitting
the machine learning topic, we first obtain a sub-corpus Dml that is
relevant to machine learning. Within Dml , terms reflecting general
machine learning topics such as ‘machine learning’ and ‘ml’ appear
in a large number of documents. They become similar to stopwords
and can be easily separated from more specific terms. Meanwhile,
for those terms that reflect different machine learning sub-topics
(e.g., ‘classifcation’ and ‘clustering’), they are also better separated
in the local embedding space. Since the local embeddings are trained
to preserve the semantic information for topic-related documents,
different terms have more freedom to span in the embedding space
to reflect their subtle semantic differences.

5 EXPERIMENTS
5.1 Experimental Setup
5.1.1 Datasets. We use two datasets in our experiments: (1)
DBLP contains around 1,889,656 titles of computer science papers
from the areas of information retrieval, computer vision, robotics,
security & network, and machine learning. From those paper titles,
we use an existing NP chunker to extract all the noun phrases and
then remove infrequent ones to form the term set, resulting in
13,345 distinct terms; (2) SP contains 94,476 paper abstracts from
the area of signal processing. Similarly, we extract all the noun
phrases in those abstracts to form the term set and obtain 6,982
different terms.2
5.1.2 Compared Methods. We compare TaxoGen with the following baseline methods that are capable of generating topic taxonomies:
(1) HLDA (hierarchical Latent Dirichlet Allocation) [4] is a nonparametric hierarchical topic model. It models the probability
of generating a document as choosing a path from the root to
a leaf and sampling words along the path. We apply HLDA
for topic-level taxonomy construction by regarding each
topic in HLDA as a topic.
(2) HPAM (hierarchical Pachinko Allocation Model) is a stateof-the-art hierarchical topic model [22]. Different from TaxoGen that generates the taxonomy recursively, HPAM takes
all the documents as its input and outputs a pre-defined
number of topics at different levels based on the Pachinko
Allocation Model.
(3) HClus (hierarchical clustering) uses hierarchical clustering
for taxonomy construction. We first apply the SkipGram
model on the entire corpus to learn term embeddings, and
then use spherical k-means to cluster those embeddings in a
top-down manner.
(4) NoAC is a variant of TaxoGen without the adaptive clustering module. In other words, when splitting one coarse
topic into fine-grained ones, it simply performs spherical
clustering to group parent terms into child topics.
(5) NoLE is a variant of TaxoGen without the local embedding
module. During the recursive construction process, it uses
2 The code and data are available at https://github.com/franticnerd/taxogen/.

the global embeddings that are learned on the entire corpus
throughout the construction process.
5.1.3 Parameter Settings. We use the methods to generate a fourlevel taxonomy on DBLP and a three-level taxonomy on SP. There
are two key parameters in TaxoGen: the number K for splitting a
coarse topic and the representativeness threshold δ for identifying
general terms. We set K = 5 as we found such a setting matches
the intrinsic taxonomy structures well on both DBLP and SP. For δ ,
we set it to 0.25 on DBLP and 0.15 on SP after tuning, because we
observed such a setting can robustly detect general terms that belong to parent topics at different levels in the construction process.
For HLDA, it involves three hyper-parameters: (1) the smoothing
parameter α over level distributions; (2) the smoothing parameter γ
for the Chinese Restaurant Process; and (3) the smoothing parameter η over topic-word distributions. We set α = 0.1, γ = 1.0, η = 1.0.
Under such a setting, HLDA generates a comparable number of
topics with TaxoGen on both datasets. The method HPAM requires
to set the mixture priors for super- and sub-topics. We find that
the best values for these two priors are 1.5 and 1.0 on DBLP and
SP, respectively. The remaining three methods (HClus, NoAC, and
NoLE) have a subset of the parameters of TaxoGen, and we set
them to the same values as TaxoGen.

5.2

Qualitative Results

In this subsection, we demonstrate the topic taxonomies generated
by different methods on DBLP. We apply each method to generate a four-level taxonomy on DBLP, and each parent topic is split
into five child topics by default (except for HLDA, which automatically determines the number of child topics based on the Chinese
Restaurant Process).
Figure 3 shows parts of the taxonomy generated by TaxoGen.
As shown in Figure 3(a), given the DBLP corpus, TaxoGen splits
the root topic into five sub-topics: ‘intelligent agents’, ‘object recognition’, ‘learning algorithms’, ‘cryptographic’, and ‘information retrieval’. The labels for those topics are generated automatically by
selecting the term that is most representative for a topic (Equation
1). We find those labels are of good quality and precisely summarize
the major research areas covered by the DBLP corpus. The only
minor flaw for the five labels is ‘object recognition’, which is too
specific for the computer vision area. The reason is probably because the term ‘object recognition’ is too popular in the titles of
computer vision papers, thus attracting the center of the spherical
cluster towards itself.
In Figure 3(a) and 3(b), we also show how TaxoGen splits leveltwo topics ‘information retrieval’ and ‘learning algorithms’ into
more fine-grained topics. Taking ‘information retrieval’ as an example: (1) at level three, TaxoGen can successfully find major areas
in information retrieval: retrieval effectiveness, interlingual, Web
search, rdf & xml query, and text mining; (2) at level four, TaxoGen
splits the Web search topic into more fine-grained problems: link
analysis, social tagging, recommender systems & user profiling,
blog search, and clickthrough models. Similarly for the machine
learning topic (Figure 3(b)), TaxoGen can discover level-three topics like ‘neural network’ and level-four topic like ‘recurrent neural
network’. Moreover, the top terms for each topic are of good quality

— they are semantically coherent and cover different aspects and
expressions of the same topic.
We have also compared the taxonomies generated by TaxoGen
and other baseline methods, and found that TaxoGen offers clearly
better taxonomies from the qualitative perspective. Due to the space
limit, we only show parts of the taxonomies generated by NoAC
and NoLE to demonstrate the effectiveness of TaxoGen. As shown
in Figure 4(a), NoLE can also find several sensible child topics for
the parent topic (e.g., ‘blogs’ and ‘recommender system’ under ‘Web
search’), but the major disadvantage is that a considerable number of the child topics are false positives. Specifically, a number
of parent-child pairs (‘web search’ and ‘web search’, ‘neural networks’ and ‘neural networks’) actually represent the same topic
instead of true hypernym-hyponym relations. The reason behind is
that NoLE uses global term embeddings at all levels, and thus the
terms for different semantic granularities have close embeddings
and hard to be separated at lower levels. Such a problem also exists
for NoAC, but with a different reason: NoAC does not leverage
adaptive clustering to push up the terms that belong to the parent
topic. Consequently, at fine-grained levels, terms that have different granularities are all involved in the clustering step, making
the clustering boundaries less clear compared to TaxoGen. Such
qualitative results clearly show the advantages of TaxoGen over
the baseline methods, which are the key factors that leads to the
performance gaps between them in our quantitative evaluation.
Table 1 further compares global and local term embeddings for
similarity search tasks. As shown, for the given two queries, the topfive terms retrieved with global embeddings (i.e., the embeddings
trained on the entire corpus) are relevant to the queries, yet they
are semantically dissimilar if we inspect them at a finer granularity.
For example, for the query ‘information extraction’, the top-five
similar terms cover various areas and semantic granularities in the
NLP area, such as ‘text mining’, ‘named entity recognition’, and
‘natural language processing’. In contrast, the results returned based
on local embeddings are more coherent and of the same semantic
granularity as the given query.

5.3

Quantitative Analysis

In this subsection, we quantitatively evaluate the quality of the
constructed topic taxonomies by different methods. The evaluation
of a taxonomy is a challenging task, not only because there are
no ground-truth taxonomies for our used datasets, but also that
the quality of a taxonomy should be judged from different aspects.
In our study, we consider the following aspects for evaluating a
topic-level taxonomy:
• Relation Accuracy aims at measuring the portions of the
true positive parent-child relations in a given taxonomy.
• Term Coherency aims at quantifying how semantically
coherent the top terms are for a topic.
• Cluster Quality examines whether a topic and its siblings
form quality clustering structures that are well separated in
the semantic space.
We instantiate the evaluations of the above three aspects as
follows. First, for the relation accuracy measure, we take all the
parent-child pairs in a taxonomy and perform user study to judge
these pairs. Specifically, we recruited 10 doctoral and post-doctoral

*

intelligent_agents

object_recognition

learning_algorithms

cryptographic

information_retrieval

intelligent_agents
software_agents
agents
multi_agent_system
agent_technology
agent
agent_based
multi_agent_systems

object_recognition
pose_estimation
object_detection
computer_vision
stereo_vision
appearance_based
stereo
image_matching

learning_algorithms
classification_problems
learning_algorithm
classifiers
neural_networks
function_approximation
svms
kernel_machines

cryptographic
cryptography
encryption
public_key
crypto
secure
cryptographic_primitives
cryptosystems

information_retrieval
information_retrieval_ir
document_retrieval
information_retrieval_systems
query_expansion
text_retrieval
question_answering
information_retrieval_system

retrieval_effectiveness

interlingual

web_search

rdf

text_mining

retrieval_effectiveness
query_expansion
pseudo_relevance_feedback
trec
relevance
document_retrieval
ir_systems
average_precision

interlingual
machine_translation
statistical_machine_translation
english
mt
bilingual
speech_recognition
speech

web_search
click
search_engines
recommendation
web_search_engines
search_engine
web
collaborative_filtering

rdf
xml
sparql
owl
schema
schemas
xml_schema
xquery

text_mining
mining
bioinformatics
biomedical
association_rule_mining
biomedical_literature
miner
frequent_itemsets

link_structure

social_tagging

user_interests

blogs

clickthrough_data

link_structure
hyperlink
pagerank
linkage
web_pages
hyperlinks
web_page
hyperlink_structure

social_tagging
tags
folksonomies
folksonomy
social_bookmarking
social_tagging_systems
social_networks
collaborative_tagging

user_interests
user_profiles
user_preferences
user_profile
information_filtering
collaborative_filtering
items
web_usage_mining

blogs
blog
news
blogosphere
weblogs
twitter
bloggers
opinions

clickthrough_data
web_search
click
query_logs
ads
implicit_feedback
clicks
query_log

(a) The sub-topics generated by TaxoGen under the topics ‘*’ (level 1), ‘information retrieval’ (level 2), and ‘Web search’ (level 3).
learning_algorithms

neural_network

kernel_discriminant_analysis

reinforcement_learning

classifiers

bayesian

neural_network
neural_networks
artificial_neural_network
feedforward
multilayer
neural
recurrent_neural_network
neuron

kernel_discriminant_analysis
dimensionality_reduction
discriminant
dimension_reduction
discriminant_analysis
high_dimensional_data
linear_discriminant_analysis
low_rank

reinforcement_learning
markov_decision_processes
reinforcement_learning_rl
optimal_control
reinforcement_learning_algorithms
rl
stochastic_control
stochastic_games

classifiers
base_classifiers
classifier
majority_voting
ensemble_methods
multiple_classifiers
individual_classifiers
decision_tree

bayesian
maximum_likelihood
bayesian_inference
maximum_likelihood_estimation
bayesian_framework
parametric
dirichlet
bayesian_networks

recurrent_networks

som

tsk_fuzzy

forecasting

back_propagation_bp

recurrent_networks
recurrent_neural_networks
synapses
associative_memory
dynamical
attractor
spiking_neurons
spiking

som
self_organizing_maps
self_organizing_map
kohonen
neural_gas
self_organizing_map_som
soms
unsupervised_classification

tsk_fuzzy
genetic_algorithms
fuzzy_controller
fuzzy_controllers
takagi_sugeno
membership_functions
tsk
fuzzy_rules

forecasting
forecast
time_series
forecasting_model
stock_market
time_series_forecasting
forecasting_models
regression_analysis

back_propagation_bp
rbf
rbf_network
backpropagation_algorithm
rbf_neural_networks
mlp
back_propagation_algorithm
backpropagation

(b) The sub-topics generated by TaxoGen under the topics ‘learning algorithms’ (level 2) and ‘neural network’ (level 3).

Figure 3: Parts of the taxonomy generated by TaxoGen on the DBLP dataset. For each topic, we show its label and the topeight representative terms generated by the ranking function of TaxoGen. All the labels and terms are returned by TaxoGen
automatically without manual selection or filtering.
researchers in Computer Science as human evaluators. For each
parent-child pair, we show the parent and child topics (in the form
of top-five representative terms) to at least three evaluators, and
ask whether the given pair is a valid parent-child relation. After
collecting the answers from the evaluators, we simply use majority
voting to label the pairs and compute the ratio of true positives.
Second, to measure term coherency, we perform a term intrusion
user study. Given the top five terms for a topic, we inject into these
terms a fake term that is randomly chosen from a sibling topic.
Subsequently, we show these six terms to an evaluator and ask
which one is the injected term. Intuitively, the more coherent the
top terms are, the more likely an evaluator can correctly identify the

injected term, and thus we compute the ratio of correct instances
as the term coherency score. Finally, to quantify cluster quality,
we use the Davies-Bouldin (DB) Index measure: For any cluster C,
we first compute the similarities between C and other clusters and
assign the largest value to C as its cluster similarity. Then the DB
index is obtained by averaging all the cluster similarities [8]. The
smaller the DB index is, the better the clustering result is.
Table 2 shows the relation accuracy and term coherency of different methods. As shown, TaxoGen achieves the best performance in
terms of both measures. TaxoGen significantly outperforms topic
modeling methods as well as other embedding-based baseline methods. Comparing the performance of TaxoGen, NoAC, and NoLE,

blogs

news_articles

web_search

web_documents

recommendation

blogs
blog
social_media
blogosphere
twitter
weblogs
bloggers
news

news_articles
sentiment
opinion
newspaper
email
opinion_mining
summarizing
genres

web_search
search_engine
search_engines
web_search_engines
web_search_engine
search_results
click
google

web_documents
web_document
world_wide_web
web_content
www
web_contents
web_mining
web_directories

recommendation
collaborative_filtering
recommender_system
recommender_systems
recommender
recommendation_system
recommendation_systems
recommendations

(a) The sub-topics generated by NoLE under the topic ‘web search’ (level 3).

bit_parity_problem

genetic_algorithm

neurons

neural_networks

artificial_neural_network

bit_parity_problem
hopfield_neural_network
single_layer
hopfield
neat
symbolic_regression
hnn
lstm

genetic_algorithm
genetic_algorithms
genetic
ant_colony_optimization
evolutionary
particle_swarm_optimization
simulated_annealing
evolutionary_algorithm

neurons
neuronal
neural
synaptic
neuron
spiking_neurons
synapses
spiking

neural_networks
nn
nonlinear
ann
cascade
self_organizing_maps
topologies
nonlinear_systems

artificial_neural_network
forecasting
forecast
neuro_fuzzy
ann
anfis
adaptive_control
multivariable

(b) The sub-topics generated by NoLE under the topic ‘neural networks’ (level 3).

artificial_neural_network_ann

backpropagation

takagi_sugeno

spiking_neurons

learning_vector_quantization

artificial_neural_network_ann
artificial_neural_networks_ann
artificial_neural_network
ann
back_propagation_network
mfnn
backpropagation_neural_network
anns

backpropagation
backpropagation_algorithm
back_propagation_algorithm
multilayer_perceptron
gradient_descent
rtrl
scaled_conjugate_gradient
backpropagation_bp

takagi_sugeno
fuzzy_inference_systems
tsk
fuzzy_rule_base
fuzzy_controllers
fuzzy_inference
fuzzy_neural
fuzzy_rules

spiking_neurons
spiking
spiking_neuron
neurons
spiking_neural_networks
biologically_realistic
neuronal
biologically_plausible

learning_vector_quantization
learning_vector_quantization_lvq
lvq
competitive_learning
kohonen
artificial_immune_system
unsupervised_classification
self_organizing_maps_soms

(c) The sub-topics generated by NoAC under the topic ‘neural network’ (level 3).

Figure 4: Example topics generated by NoLE and NoAC on the DBLP dataset. Again, we show the label and the top-eight
representative terms for each topic.
Table 1: Similarity searches on DBLP for: (1) Q1 =
‘pose_estimation’; and (2) Q2 = ‘information_extraction’. For
both queries, we use cosine similarity to retrieve the top-five
terms in the vocabulary based on global and local embeddings. The local embedding results for ‘pose_estimation’ are
obtained in the ‘object_recognition’ sub-topic, while the results for ‘information_extraction’ are obtained in the ‘learning_algorithms’ sub-topic.
Query

Global Embedding

Local Embedding

Q1

pose_estimation
single_camera
monocular
d_reconstruction
visual_servoing

pose_estimation
camera_pose_estimation
dof
dof_pose_estimation
uncalibrated

information_extraction
information_extraction_ie
text_mining
named_entity_recognition
natural_language_processing

information_extraction
information_extraction_ie
ie
extracting_information_from
question_anwering_qa

Q2

we can see both the adaptive clustering and the local embedding
modules play an important role in improving the quality of the
result taxonomy: the adaptive clustering module can correctly push
background terms back to parent topics; while the local embedding

Table 2: Relation accuracy and term coherency of different
methods on the DBLP and SP datasets.

Method
HPAM
HLDA
HClus
NoAC
NoLE
TaxoGen

Relation Accuracy

Term Coherency

DBLP
0.109
0.272
0.436
0.563
0.645
0.775

DBLP
0.173
0.442
0.467
0.35
0.704
0.728

SP
0.160
0.383
0.240
0.208
0.240
0.520

SP
0.163
0.265
0.571
0.428
0.510
0.592

strategy can better capture subtle semantic differences of terms
at lower levels. For both measures, the topic modeling methods
(HLDA and HPAM) perform significantly worse than embeddingbased methods, especially on the short-document dataset DBLP.
The reason is two-fold. First, HLDA and HPAM make stronger assumptions on document-topic and topic-term distributions, which
may not fit the empirical data well. Second, the representative
terms of topic modeling methods are selected purely based on the
learned multinomial distributions, whereas embedding-based methods perform distinctness analysis to select terms that are more
representative.
Figure 5 shows the DB index of all the embedding-based methods.
TaxoGen achieves the smallest DB index (the best clustering result)

Davies-Bouldin Index

Davies-Bouldin Index

2.2
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.5

HClus NoAC

NoLE

(a) DB index on DBLP.

Ours

2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.8

HClus NoAC

NoLE

Ours

(b) DB index on SP.

Figure 5: The Davies-Bouldin index of embedding-based
methods on DBLP and SP.
among these four methods. Such a phenomenon further validates
the fact that both the adaptive clustering and local embedding
modules are useful in producing clearer clustering structures: (1)
The adaptive clustering process gradually identifies and eliminates
the general terms, which typically lie in the boundaries of different
clusters; (2) The local embedding module is capable of refining term
embeddings using a topic-constrained sub-corpus, allowing the subtopics to be well separated from each other at a finer granularity.

6

CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION

We studied the problem of constructing topic taxonomies from a
given text corpus. Our proposed method TaxoGen relies on term
embedding and spherical clustering to construct a topic taxonomy
in a recursive way. It consists of an adaptive clustering module
that allocates terms to proper levels when splitting a coarse topic,
as well as a local embedding module that learns term embeddings
to maintain strong discriminative power at lower levels. In our
experiments, we have demonstrated that both two modules are
useful in improving the quality of the resultant taxonomy, which
renders TaxoGen advantages over existing methods for building
topic taxonomies. One limitation of the current version of TaxoGen
is that it requires a pre-specified number of clusters when splitting a
coarse topic into fine-grained ones. In the future, it is interesting to
extend TaxoGen to allow it to automatically determine the optimal
number of children for each parent topic in the construction process.
Acknowledgements: This work was sponsored in part by U.S.
Army Research Lab. under Cooperative Agreement No. W911NF-092-0053 (NSCTA), DARPA under Agreement No. W911NF-17-C-0099,
National Science Foundation IIS 16-18481, IIS 17-04532, and IIS-1741317, DTRA HDTRA11810026, and grant 1U54GM114838 awarded
by NIGMS through funds provided by the trans-NIH Big Data to
Knowledge (BD2K) initiative (www.bd2k.nih.gov). Any opinions,
findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
document are those of the author(s) and should not be interpreted
as the views of any funding agencies.

REFERENCES
[1] E. Agichtein and L. Gravano. Snowball: Extracting relations from large plain-text
collections. In ACM DL, pages 85–94, 2000.
[2] L. E. Anke, J. Camacho-Collados, C. D. Bovi, and H. Saggion. Supervised distributional hypernym discovery via domain adaptation. In EMNLP, pages 424–435,
2016.

[3] M. Bansal, D. Burkett, G. de Melo, and D. Klein. Structured learning for taxonomy
induction with belief propagation. In ACL, pages 1041–1051, 2014.
[4] D. M. Blei, T. L. Griffiths, M. I. Jordan, and J. B. Tenenbaum. Hierarchical topic
models and the nested chinese restaurant process. In NIPS, pages 17–24, 2003.
[5] A. Carlson, J. Betteridge, B. Kisiel, B. Settles, E. R. Hruschka Jr, and T. M. Mitchell.
Toward an architecture for never-ending language learning. In AAAI, volume 5,
page 3, 2010.
[6] P. Cimiano, A. Hotho, and S. Staab. Comparing conceptual, divisive and agglomerative clustering for learning taxonomies from text. In ECAI, pages 435–439,
2004.
[7] B. Cui, J. Yao, G. Cong, and Y. Huang. Evolutionary taxonomy construction from
dynamic tag space. In WISE, pages 105–119, 2010.
[8] D. L. Davies and D. W. Bouldin. A cluster separation measure. IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., 1(2):224–227, 1979.
[9] I. S. Dhillon and D. S. Modha. Concept decompositions for large sparse text data
using clustering. Machine Learning, 42(1/2):143–175, 2001.
[10] D. Downey, C. Bhagavatula, and Y. Yang. Efficient methods for inferring large
sparse topic hierarchies. In ACL, 2015.
[11] R. Fu, J. Guo, B. Qin, W. Che, H. Wang, and T. Liu. Learning semantic hierarchies
via word embeddings. In ACL, pages 1199–1209, 2014.
Inriasac: Simple hypernym extraction methods.
In
[12] G. Grefenstette.
SemEval@NAACL-HLT, 2015.
[13] H. Gui, Q. Zhu, L. Liu, A. Zhang, and J. Han. Expert finding in heterogeneous
bibliographic networks with locally-trained embeddings. CoRR, abs/1803.03370,
2018.
[14] M. A. Hearst. Automatic acquisition of hyponyms from large text corpora. In
COLING, pages 539–545, 1992.
[15] M. Jiang, J. Shang, T. Cassidy, X. Ren, L. M. Kaplan, T. P. Hanratty, and J. Han.
Metapad: Meta pattern discovery from massive text corpora. In KDD, 2017.
[16] Z. Kozareva and E. H. Hovy. A semi-supervised method to learn and construct
taxonomies using the web. In ACL, pages 1110–1118, 2010.
[17] R. Kumar, P. Raghavan, S. Rajagopalan, and A. Tomkins. On semi-automated
web taxonomy construction. In WebDB, pages 91–96, 2001.
[18] X. Liu, Y. Song, S. Liu, and H. Wang. Automatic taxonomy construction from
keywords. In KDD, pages 1433–1441, 2012.
[19] A. T. Luu, J. Kim, and S. Ng. Taxonomy construction using syntactic contextual
evidence. In EMNLP, pages 810–819, 2014.
[20] A. T. Luu, Y. Tay, S. C. Hui, and S. Ng. Learning term embeddings for taxonomic
relation identification using dynamic weighting neural network. In EMNLP,
pages 403–413, 2016.
[21] T. Mikolov, I. Sutskever, K. Chen, G. S. Corrado, and J. Dean. Distributed representations of words and phrases and their compositionality. In NIPS, pages
3111–3119, 2013.
[22] D. M. Mimno, W. Li, and A. McCallum. Mixtures of hierarchical topics with
pachinko allocation. In ICML, pages 633–640, 2007.
[23] N. Nakashole, G. Weikum, and F. Suchanek. Patty: A taxonomy of relational
patterns with semantic types. In EMNLP, pages 1135–1145, 2012.
[24] A. Panchenko, S. Faralli, E. Ruppert, S. Remus, H. Naets, C. Fairon, S. P.
Ponzetto, and C. Biemann. Taxi at semeval-2016 task 13: a taxonomy induction method based on lexico-syntactic patterns, substrings and focused crawling.
In SemEval@NAACL-HLT, 2016.
[25] S. P. Ponzetto and M. Strube. Deriving a large-scale taxonomy from wikipedia.
In AAAI, 2007.
[26] J. Seitner, C. Bizer, K. Eckert, S. Faralli, R. Meusel, H. Paulheim, and S. P. Ponzetto.
A large database of hypernymy relations extracted from the web. In LREC, 2016.
[27] R. Shearer and I. Horrocks. Exploiting partial information in taxonomy construction. The Semantic Web-ISWC 2009, pages 569–584, 2009.
[28] C. Wang, M. Danilevsky, N. Desai, Y. Zhang, P. Nguyen, T. Taula, and J. Han. A
phrase mining framework for recursive construction of a topical hierarchy. In
KDD, 2013.
[29] J. Weeds, D. Clarke, J. Reffin, D. J. Weir, and B. Keller. Learning to distinguish
hypernyms and co-hyponyms. In COLING, 2014.
[30] W. Wu, H. Li, H. Wang, and K. Q. Zhu. Probase: A probabilistic taxonomy for
text understanding. In SIGMOD, pages 481–492. ACM, 2012.
[31] H. Yang and J. Callan. A metric-based framework for automatic taxonomy
induction. In ACL, pages 271–279, 2009.
[32] Z. Yu, H. Wang, X. Lin, and M. Wang. Learning term embeddings for hypernymy
identification. In IJCAI, 2015.
[33] Y. Zhang, A. Ahmed, V. Josifovski, and A. J. Smola. Taxonomy discovery for
personalized recommendation. In WSDM, 2014.
[34] J. Zhu, Z. Nie, X. Liu, B. Zhang, and J.-R. Wen. Statsnowball: a statistical approach
to extracting entity relationships. In WWW, 2009.

