CoRel: Seed-Guided Topical Taxonomy Construction
by Concept Learning and Relation Transferring
Jiaxin Huang1 , Yiqing Xie2 , Yu Meng1 , Yunyi Zhang1 , Jiawei Han1
1 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, IL, USA

2 The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China
1 {jiaxinh3, yumeng5, yzhan238, hanj}@illinois.edu

Input 1: Seed Taxonomy

arXiv:2010.06714v1 [cs.CL] 13 Oct 2020

ABSTRACT
Taxonomy is not only a fundamental form of knowledge representation, but also crucial to vast knowledge-rich applications, such as
question answering and web search. Most existing taxonomy construction methods extract hypernym-hyponym entity pairs to organize a “universal” taxonomy. However, these generic taxonomies
cannot satisfy user’s specific interest in certain areas and relations.
Moreover, the nature of instance taxonomy treats each node as a
single word, which has low semantic coverage. In this paper, we
propose a method for seed-guided topical taxonomy construction,
which takes a corpus and a seed taxonomy described by concept
names as input, and constructs a more complete taxonomy based
on user’s interest, wherein each node is represented by a cluster of
coherent terms. Our framework, CoRel, has two modules to fulfill
this goal. A relation transferring module learns and transfers the
user’s interested relation along multiple paths to expand the seed
taxonomy structure in width and depth. A concept learning module
enriches the semantics of each concept node by jointly embedding
the taxonomy and text. Comprehensive experiments conducted on
real-world datasets show that CoRel generates high-quality topical
taxonomies and outperforms all the baselines significantly.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems → Data mining; Clustering and classification; • Computing methodologies → Information extraction;
Ontology engineering.

KEYWORDS
Taxonomy Construction; Semantic Computing; Topic Discovery;
Relation Extraction
ACM Reference Format:
Jiaxin Huang1 , Yiqing Xie2 , Yu Meng1 , Yunyi Zhang1 , Jiawei Han1 . 2020.
CoRel: Seed-Guided Topical Taxonomy Construction by Concept Learning and Relation Transferring. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD ’20), August
23–27, 2020, Virtual Event, CA, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3394486.3403244
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
KDD ’20, August 23–27, 2020, Virtual Event, CA, USA
© 2020 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-7998-4/20/08. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3394486.3403244

2 yxieal@ust.hk

Root

Root

Food
Menu
Course
Lunch
Dinner

Dessert
Seafood

Cake

Ice-cream

__
____________
__
____________ ______
__
__
______
____ ______
________
__
__
______
____ ______
________
____ ____
____________
____ __
__
____
__
____________
____ ______
__
__
____ ______
__
____

User

Input 2: Corpus

Dessert

Seafood

Salad

Cake
Pudding
Sugar
Mochi
Caramel

Crab
Crowfish
Shrimp
Sashimi
Scallop

Dressing
Mixed_greens
Goat cheese
Lettuce
Tomato

Cake

Oysters

Crabs

Creme Brûlée
Tiramisu
Chocolate Cake
Cheesecake
Bread Pudding

Oysters
Fresh Oysters
Raw Oysters
Shellfish
Fried Oysters

Crabs
King Crabs
Snow Crabs
Stone Crabs
Crab Legs

Output: Topical Taxonomy

Figure 1: Seed-guided topical taxonomy construction. User
inputs a partial taxonomy, and CoRel extracts a more complete topical taxonomy based on user-interested aspect and
relation, with each node represented by a cluster of words.

1

INTRODUCTION

Taxonomy is an essential form of knowledge representation and
plays an important role in a wide range of applications [19, 39, 41].
A taxonomy constructed from a large corpus organizes a set of
concepts into a hierarchy, making it clear for people to understand
relations between concepts.
Most existing taxonomy construction methods organize hypernymhyponym entity pairs into a tree structure to form an instance taxonomy. However, a “universal” taxonomy so constructed cannot
cater to user’s specific needs. For example, a user might want to
learn about concepts in a certain aspect (e.g., food or research areas)
from a corpus. Generic taxonomy has two noteworthy limitations:
(1) Countless irrelevant terms and fixed “is-a” relations dominate
the instance taxonomy, failing to capture user’s interested aspects
and relations, and (2) each node is represented by a single word
without considering term correlation, limiting people’s understanding due to low semantic coverage, not to mention that synonyms
could appear at multiple nodes.
We study the problem of seed-guided topical taxonomy construction, where user provides a seed taxonomy as guidance, and a more
complete topical taxonomy is generated from text corpus, with each
node represented by a cluster of terms (topics). As shown in Figure
1, a user provides a seed taxonomy and wants to generate a more
complete food taxonomy from a given corpus. Such a more complete topical taxonomy can be hopefully constructed by expanding
various types of food both in width and depth, with a cluster of
descriptive terms for each concept node as a topic.

To fulfill this, we propose a framework CoRel, which approaches
the problem with two modules: (i) A relation transferring module
learns the specific relation preserved in seed taxonomy and attaches
new concepts to existing nodes to complete the taxonomy structure.;
and (ii) a concept learning module captures user-interested aspects
and enriches the semantics of each concept node. Two challenges
are met in the course: (1) Fine-grained concept names can be close
in the embedding space, and enriching the concepts might result
in relevant but not distinctive terms (e.g., “sugar” is relevant to
both “cake” and “ice-cream”); and (2) with minimal user input, it is
nontrivial to directly apply weakly supervised relation extraction
methods to expand the taxonomy structure. Overall, noisy terms
may harm the quality of new topics found.
To address these challenges, the relation transferring module
first captures the relation preserved in seed parent-child pairs and
transfers it upwards and downwards for finding the first-layer topics and subtopics, attached by a co-clustering technique to remove
inconsistent subtopics. The concept learning module learns a discriminative embedding space by jointly embedding the taxonomy
with text and separating close concepts in the embedding space.
We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework through a
series of experiments on two real-world datasets, and show that
CoRel outperforms all the baseline methods in multiple metrics. We
also provide qualitative analysis to demonstrate the high quality
of our generated topical taxonomy and its advantages over other
methods.
Our contribution can be summarized as follows: (1) A novel
framework for seed-guided topical taxonomy construction. (2) A
relation transferring module that passes the user-interested relation
along multiple paths in different directions for taxonomy structure
completion. (3) A concept learning module that enriches the semantics for a taxonomy of words by extracting distinctive terms. (4)
Comprehensive experiments on real-world data with qualitative
and quantitative studies that prove the effectiveness of CoRel.

2

RELATED WORK

Unsupervised Taxonomy Construction.
Most existing taxonomy construction algorithms perform a twostep approach: Hypernym-hyponym pairs are first extracted from
a corpus and then organized into a tree structure. The task of
hypernym-hyponym extraction traditionally relies on pattern-based
methods which utilize Hearst patterns [11] like “NP such as NP”
to acquire parent-child pairs that satisfy the “is-a” relation. Later,
researchers design more lexical patterns [22, 23] or extract such
patterns automatically [31, 32] in a bootstrapping method. These
pattern-based methods suffer from low recall due to the diversity
of expressions. Distributional methods alleviate the problem of
sparsity by representing each word as a low-dimensional vector
to capture their semantic similarity. There exist approaches [2, 37]
inspired by Distributional Inclusion Hypothesis [42] (the context
of a hyponym should be the subset of that of a hypernym) to detect
hypernym-hyponym pairs without supervision. On the end of term
organization, graph-based methods [14, 24, 34] are used to remove
conflicts that form loops in the taxonomy. The aforementioned algorithms are not suitable for constructing a topical taxonomy, since

they treat each word as a single node instead of forming topics with
relevant terms for people to comprehend.
As another line of work, clustering-based taxonomy construction
is closer to our problem setting. Clustering-based taxonomy construction methods first learn a representation space for terms, then
perform clustering to separate terms into different topics by different measures [3, 16, 36, 38]. A recent method TaxoGen [40] finds
fine-grained topics by spherical clustering and local-corpus embedding. Hierarchical topic modeling algorithms [1, 21] are comparable
to these methods, since they organize terms to form a taxonomy of
topics, each represented by a word distribution.
The above methods do not require supervision in taxonomy
construction. They suffer from two disadvantages: (1) Without user
input seed terms, they cannot capture users’ specific interest in
certain aspects of the corpus (e.g., “food” or “research areas”), thus
the final output may include a large number of irrelevant terms;
and (2) these methods either capture generic “is-a” patterns or do
not enforce specific relations in children finding (clustering-based
methods), thus cannot cater to user-interested relations.
Seed-Guided Taxonomy Construction.
For seed-guided taxonomy construction, HiExpan [30] integrates
the above two-step approach into a tree expansion process by width
and depth expansion of the original seed taxonomy. Specifically,
for width expansion that adds sibling nodes to those sharing the
same parent, the method uses a set expansion algorithm [29] that
leverages skip-gram features to calculate similarity between terms.
For depth expansion that attaches children nodes to new node (e.g.,
attaching “oyster” to “seafood” in Figure 1), they use word analogy [20] to capture relations between parent-child pairs. However,
in our setting of constructing topical taxonomy, HiExpan suffers
from two drawbacks: (1) the set expansion algorithm is not good at
expanding concepts; and (2) word analogy is only locally preserved
in the Word2Vec space [8].
Weakly Supervised Relation Extraction.
To construct a taxonomy that fits in with a user-interested relation, we aim to preserve the same relation between all newly added
parent-child topics. With only a few given seeds, it is impossible to
train a highly accurate and complicated relation extraction model
with a huge number of parameters. Traditional weakly supervised
relation extraction methods [22, 32] find textual patterns from given
instances, suffering from sparsity of relation expressions. Recent
studies [26] combine textual patterns with distributional features
for mutual enhancement in a co-training framework. Neural-based
methods like prototypical network [9] which represents each relation as a vector have shown to be effective in few shot relation (FSL)
extraction. Recent advances in contextualized text representation
show that deep transformers (e.g., BERT [6]) learn task-agnostic
representations achieving strong performance on various NLP tasks.
Researchers show that by learning from large amounts of entity
pairs co-occurring in Wikipedia corpus, BERT can achieve state-ofthe-art [33] on FSL relation extraction on benchmark datasets [10].
Supervised Taxonomy Construction.
Most supervised taxonomy construction methods focus on extracting hypernym-hyponym pairs. Word analogy (𝑣 (man)−𝑣 (king)
= 𝑣 (woman) − 𝑣 (queen)) is preserved in local clusters, and a piecewise linear projection from words to their hypernyms is trained

Lunch

Root

Food

Dish

Dessert

Lunch

Food

Dessert
Seafood

Cake Ice-cream

Dessert

Lunch Food Dish

Dish

Pork
Seafood

Seafood

Cake Ice-cream

Cake
Crab
Char siu
Ice-cream
Oyster
Sausage

Step 1: Relation
transferring upwards

Step 2: Relation
transferring downwards

Dessert
Cake
Pudding

Cake
Chocolate Cake
Cheesecake

Seafood
Shrimp
Crab

Ice-cream
Sundae
Milkshake

Pork
Roastedpork

Char siu
Pork bun
Chasu

Sausage
Bacon
Ham

Step 3: Concept learning for generating
topical clusters

Figure 2: Workflow of CoRel.
in [8]. For neural-based methods, order embedding [4, 35] is proposed to express partial orders between words. Later studies show
that Poincaré space can be viewed as a continuous generalization of
tree structures, so they embed large taxonomy structures extracted
from WordNet [25] or Wikipedia [15]. However, in our setting, the
user-given taxonomy is of very limited size, and thus cannot be
adaptive to these frameworks.

3

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION

In this section we describe the task of seed-guided topical taxonomy construction. The inputs are a collection of documents
D = {𝑑 1, 𝑑 2, ..., 𝑑 | D | } and a tree-structured seed taxonomy 𝑇 0 provided by user. Each node 𝑒 in 𝑇 0 is represented by a single word
from the corpus, and each edge ⟨𝑝 0 ,𝑐 0 ⟩ implies user-interested relation between a parent-child pair, such as “is a subfield of” or “is a
type of”. The output is a more complete topical taxonomy 𝑇 , with
each node 𝑒 as a conceptual topic, represented by a coherent cluster
of words describing the topic. Figure 1 shows an example of our
task.
The meanings of the notations used in this paper are presented
in Table 1.

Table 1: Notations and Meanings.

4

Notation

Meaning

𝑇
𝑅
𝑒
𝐶𝑒
𝑁𝑒
𝐵𝑒
⟨𝑝,𝑐⟩

The tree structure of taxonomy.
Root node of taxonomy 𝑇 .
A concept node on taxonomy 𝑇 .
The topic cluster of concept 𝑒.
Nodes sharing common parent with 𝑒, including 𝑒.
The children nodes of 𝑒.
A pair of direct parent and child nodes in 𝑇 .

METHODOLOGY

In this section, we introduce our proposed method by first giving
an overview in Section 4.1 and then describing the details of two
modules in Sections 4.3 and 4.2.

4.1

Method Overview

Figure 2 shows the workflow of CoRel. To expand the tree structure
of a user-given seed taxonomy 𝑇 0 , CoRel first leverages a relation
transferring module to capture seed relations of edge ⟨𝑝 0 ,𝑐 0 ⟩. In
step 1, it attempts to discover potential root concepts by transferring the relation upwards, such as “Lunch”, “Food” and “Dish” as
more general concepts to cover the topics. In step 2, the relation is
transferred downwards to attach new topics (internal nodes) as well
as new subtopics (leaf nodes). Finally, a concept learning module is
used to learn a discriminative embedding space to generate topical
clusters for each concept node. Below we address the two modules
in detail.

4.2

Taxonomy Completion by Relation
Transferring

The relation transferring module is used to complete the taxonomy
structure by finding new topics and subtopics. This module first
captures the relation between user given ⟨𝑝,𝑐⟩ pairs by training a
relation classifier on the given corpus. The relation classifier takes
a relation statement (will be defined in section 4.2.1) of a pair of
terms as input, and judges whether there exists user-interested
relation and which direction it is between the pair. After training
the relation classifier, we transfer the relation upwards for root
node discovery, and then transfer the relation downwards to find
new topics/subtopics as the child of root/topic node. In both the
example and evaluation we construct two layers of topics, though
this module can be applied to discover more fine-grained topics by
further going down.
4.2.1 Self-supervised Relation Learning. Previous studies show that
word analogy can capture relations between words to some extent
[20, 30], but vector offset is only preserved in a local area in the
embedding space [8]. To deal with more complicated relations,
our choice of the model is inspired by the effectiveness of the
pre-trained deep language model, BERT[6], on wide downstream
applications. [33] also shows its power in few-shot relation learning
by training the model in a distant supervised setting using large
amounts of pairs of entities on Wikipedia corpus. In our setting,
user gives minimal seeds which limits the potential to train such
deep language model, thus we only employ the pre-trained BERT
model and train a relation classifier as shown in Figure 3.

R0
R1
R2

E1
E2

R0

E2
E1

R1

R2

Linear Layer + Softmax

No userinterested
relation

Concatenation
E1

E2

[MASK]

[MASK]

Pre-trained Language Model
[CLS] We don’t serve [MASK] today ( except for [MASK] ) . [SEP]
We don’t serve desserts today ( except for ice_cream ) .

Figure 3: Our Weakly Supervised Relation Classifier.

Relation Statement. We assume that if a pair of ⟨𝑝,𝑐⟩ co-occurs
in a sentence in the corpus, then that sentence implies their relation.
We refer to sentences containing ⟨𝑝,𝑐⟩ as their relation statements
and leverage a pre-trained deep language model to understand the
relation statements. To learn the user-interested specific relation, we
extract all the relation statements of user-given ⟨𝑝 0 ,𝑐 0 ⟩ as positive
training samples. We collect negative training sentences in two
ways: (1) relation statements of sibling nodes, thus avoiding the
model to only find closely related terms; and (2) random sentences
from the corpus, so the model can learn from irrelevant contexts to
avoid overfitting.
Sequence Input Representation. Since user gives only a minimal
number of seeds, which is not enough to train deep encoders, we
cannot simply add explicit markers around pairs of terms to let the
model pay attention to. Therefore, we take the original sentence and
replace the two terms by “[MASK]” tokens with two justifications:
(1) aligning with the pre-trained objective of masked language
model; and (2) avoiding the classification layer to only remember
relations from training pairs instead of looking into contexts.
Classification Layer. We take the output of two “[MASK]” tokens from the last layer of the pre-trained language model, and
concatenate them to be the input of the classification layer, where
we use a simple linear layer before the softmax layer. The output
label chooses the relation from 𝑒 1 to 𝑒 2 among three classes in the
relation set Q: ⟨𝑒 1 →𝑒 2 ⟩ (i.e., 𝑒 1 is a parent node of 𝑒 2 ), ⟨𝑒 2 →𝑒 1 ⟩, or
non-user interested relation.
Data Augmentation. To fully utilize the asymmetric property
along the taxonomy edges, we augment each input training sequence by reversing the order of concatenation of 𝑒1 and 𝑒2. Then
the label would switch if user-interested relation exists between
the pair, but will not change otherwise.
4.2.2 First-layer Topic Finding by Root Node Discovery. After deriving a relation classifier, we can easily transfer the user-interested
relation along the paths in the taxonomy. This is done by targeting
an existing node and finding entities to be its potential parent node
(transferring upwards) or child node (transferring downwards). To
“expand” more first-layer topics based on user-given ones, previous
work like set expansion is good at extending a list of instances like
country names or company names [12, 27, 29], but is not perfect
at expanding concept names. Another seemingly straightforward
solution is to train a few-shot sibling relation classifier based on

relation statements of sibling nodes. However, this would result in
low recall of extracted new topics, since the co-occurrence of two
relatively unrelated topics might be sparse in the corpus.
To resolve the above issue, we assume that if we can discover
potential root nodes, such as “Food” for “Dessert” and “Seafood”,
then the root node would have more general contexts for us to find
connections with potential new topics. Previous studies [17, 42]
also found general concepts cover broader semantic meaning and
have more varied contexts.
Specifically, we transfer the relation upwards by using the relation classifier learned to extract a list of parent nodes for each seed
topic. The common parent nodes for all topics are treated as root
nodes 𝑅.
Finding common root nodes. To find the parent or child of an
existing node, we extract relation statements of a concept 𝑒 and a
candidate term 𝑤 into the relation classifier to judge sentence-based
relations. Corpus-based relation between 𝑤 and 𝑒 is then averaged
over confident sentence-based results over the corpus, with the
confidence threshold being 𝛿.


Í
𝑠 𝑤→𝑒 1 𝐾𝐿 𝒍 𝒑 𝑤 > 𝛿
Score(𝑤 → 𝑒) = Í
(1)


Í
𝑞 ∈Q 𝑠𝑞 1 𝐾𝐿 𝒍 𝒑 𝑤 > 𝛿
where 𝑠𝑞 denotes relation statements in which the relation of 𝑞
exists, 𝒑 𝑤 denotes the output probability from the relation classifier,
and 𝑙 is the uniform distribution vector among three classes of
relations. Thus if the KL divergence between the two distributions
is larger than a threshold 𝛿, we treat the prediction as a confident
one. Eq. (1) calculates the portion of term 𝑤 being the parent of
concept 𝑒 among all the confident predictions, and we confirm 𝑤
as the parent node of 𝑒 if the portion is larger than a threshold. For
each user-given first-layer topic, we can generate a list of parent
nodes, and their common parent nodes are treated as root nodes 𝑅.
Finding new first-layer topics. We apply the relation classifier to
extract child terms for each root node 𝑟 ∈ 𝑅. This is done in a similar
way as root node discovery, but we only reverse the direction of
relation. Thus we need to replace (𝑤 → 𝑒) in Eq. (1) with (𝑟 → 𝑤).
New topics are selected by their average score over all root nodes.
Í
Score(𝑟 → 𝑤)
Score(𝑅 → 𝑤) = 𝑟 ∈𝑅
(2)
|𝑅|
4.2.3 Candidate term extraction for subtopics. After generating the
first-layer topics, we transfer the relation downwards to discover
subtopics of each first-layer topic. This can be done by applying
Eq. (1) again and replacing (𝑤 → 𝑒) with (𝑒 → 𝑤). The candidate
terms will later be clustered into subtopics.

4.3

Generating Topical Clusters by Concept
Learning

Our concept learning module is used to learn a discriminative embedding space, so that each concept is surrounded by its representative terms. Within this embedding space, subtopic candidates are
also clustered to form coherent subtopic nodes. This is motivated
by the fact that relevant concept names can be close to each other
in the embedding space, and directly using unsupervised word embedding such as Word2Vec [20] might result in relevant but not
distinctive terms (e.g., “food‘’ is relevant to both “seafood‘’ and

“dessert‘’). Thus we use the expanded taxonomy as input to guide
the word embedding learning process.
4.3.1 Concept Learning based on Taxonomy and Corpus. We basically design three loss functions to embed the concepts, words and
documents in a joint embedding space. Our starting point is the
assumption that similar words share similar local contexts, as is
used by the Skip-Gram model [20]. Two sets of embedding for each
word are used: center word embedding denoted as 𝑢 𝑤 and context
word embedding as 𝑣 𝑤 . The training objective is to maximize the
log probability of observing words in a fixed local context window
with the size of h.
∑︁ ∑︁
∑︁
𝐿𝑙 = −
log 𝑃 (𝑤 𝑗 | 𝑤𝑖 )
(3)
𝑑 ∈𝐷 1≤𝑖 ≤ |𝑑 | 0< | 𝑗−𝑖 | ≤ℎ



where 𝑃 (𝑤 𝑗 | 𝑤𝑖 ) ∝ exp 𝑢 𝑤𝑖 𝑣 𝑤𝑗 .
Recent studies [17, 18] also observe the importance of modeling
the documents where a word appears in, since words in similar
documents share topical coherence. We denote document embedding as 𝑑 and maximize the log probability of predicting the correct
document that a word belongs to.
∑︁ ∑︁
𝐿𝑑 = −
log 𝑃 (𝑑 | 𝑤𝑖 )
(4)
𝑑 ∈𝐷 1≤𝑖 ≤ |𝑑 |


where 𝑃 (𝑑 | 𝑤𝑖 ) ∝ exp 𝑢 𝑤𝑖 𝑢𝑑 .
Since we want to regularize the embedding space to be discriminative among the concepts in the expanded taxonomy, we wish
to form topical clusters in the embedding space where each concept embedding is surrounded by its representative terms. We use
an iterative approach to gradually grab distinctive words at each
epoch. Specifically, we add one distinctive word to each concept
cluster 𝐶𝑒 at each epoch to avoid semantic drift. We then enforce
the proximity between concept embedding and their clusters by
∑︁ ∑︁
𝐿𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥 =
log 𝑃 (𝑒 | 𝑤)
(5)
𝑒 ∈ T 𝑤 ∈ C𝑒


where 𝑃 (𝑒 | 𝑤) ∝ exp 𝑢 𝑤𝑖 𝑢𝑒
The overall training objective is a weighted sum of the above
terms.
𝐿 = 𝐿𝑙 + 𝜆𝑑 𝐿𝑑 + 𝜆𝑝 𝐿𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥

(6)

4.3.2 Topic and Relation aware Subtopic Finding. To find subtopics
for existing concepts in the seed taxonomy, we apply two constraints for generating potential candidates for subtopics: (1) Topical constraints: candidates should belong to the topic cluster 𝐶𝑒
of that concept 𝑒; and (2) relational constraints: candidates should
bear user-interested relation with the concept. The two constraints
can be applied by using the learned relation classifier and concept
embedding. However, directly using the few-shot relation classifier
can still include noisy and non-consistent terms, thus we carry out
a co-clustering method to further filter out those noisy terms.
An example is shown in Table 2, where we use a Topic-Type
table to organize the valid terms from the relation classifier. Valid
terms are divided in columns by semantic meaning and in rows
by semantic type (e.g., food, cooking style or sauces). It is easily
observable that the fourth subtopic of “pieces, slices” is an outlier

sharing little type similarity with other subtopics. Thus we apply coclustering method to retain those subtopics sharing similar semantic
type distribution.
Beef
Pork
sliced beef sirloin, rare beef roasted pork
stewed
black pepper

Bread
flat bread, wheat
toasted
pieces, slices
spicy sauce
buttery

Table 2: An example of a Topic-Type table.
Topic-Type Matrix Creation. We construct an indicative (0/1)
Topic-Type matrix to represent the joint distribution of subtopics
and types of candidates from the Topic-Type table as shown in Table
2, and the table is created by the following process: The topic-wise
clustering is done by affinity propagation (AP) clustering [7] in
the discriminative embedding space trained by concept learning,
where the concepts are separated away from each other to avoid
overlapping. The type-wise clustering is conducted by AP on the
average BERT embedding space: We first retrieve the contextualized
embedding of each candidate mention using the last layer output
of BERT, and then average over the mentions to get the embedding
for each candidate.
Co-clustering of the Matrix. Finally, to extract high quality subtopics, we apply co-clustering [13] on the indicative Topic-Type
matrix 𝑀 and define a consistency score for each cluster.
Í
Í
row label[i]==k col. label[j]==k 𝑀𝑖,𝑗
Í
Consistency(Cluster𝑘 ) = Í
(7)
row label[i]==k col. label[j]==k 1
If the consistency score of a cluster is high, then the cluster consists
of multiple subtopics that share similar semantic types. We retain
high quality subtopics by setting a threshold for the consistency
score.

4.4

Overall Algorithm

We summarize the overall algorithm of seed-guided topical taxonomy construction in Algorithm 1.

5 EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
5.1 Experiment Setup
Datasets. Our experiments are conducted on two large real-world
datasets: (1) DBLP contains around 157 thousand abstracts from
publications in the field of computer science. For preprocessing,
we use AutoPhrase [28] to extract meaningful phrases to serve
as our vocabulary, we further discard infrequent terms occuring
less than 50 times, resulting in 16650 terms. (2) Yelp is collected
from the recent released Yelp Dataset Challenge1 , containing around
1.08 million restaurant reviews. Similarly, we extract meaningful
phrases and remove infrequent terms, resulting in 14619 terms2 .
Hyperparameter setting. For our relation classifier, the hyperparameter is set to be: batch size = 16, training epochs = 5, model:
Bert-Base (12 layers, 768 hidden size, 12 heads). When training
the relation classifier, we make a 90/10 training/validation split on
1 https://www.yelp.com/dataset/challenge

2 Our code and data are available at https://github.com/teapot123/CoRel

Algorithm 1: Seed-guided Topical Taxonomy Construction.
Input: A text corpus D; a given taxonomy T 0 consisting
of nodes {𝑒𝑖 }|𝑛𝑖=1 and edges ⟨𝑝𝑖 , 𝑐𝑖 ⟩|𝑚
𝑖=1 .
Output: A more complete taxonomy T with each node 𝑒
represented by a cluster of terms.
1 Initialize relation training sample list S;
2 for 𝑖 ← 1 to 𝑚 do
3
Extract sentences 𝑆𝑝𝑖 ,𝑐𝑖 where 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑐𝑖 co-occur;
4
S ← 𝑆𝑝𝑖 ,𝑐𝑖 ;
Train the relation classifier 𝐹 according to Section 4.2.1;
𝑅 ← root nodes discovered by Section 4.2.2;
7 Initialize new first-layer topic candidates 𝑒 new by
co-occurred terms of 𝑟 ∈ 𝑅;
8 Score(𝑅 → 𝑒 new ) ← Equation 2 ;
9 B𝑅 ← B𝑅 ∪ {𝑒 new if Score(𝑅 → 𝑒 new ) > 𝛾 } ;
10
⊲ New first-layer topics found are attached to root node.;
11 for internal nodes 𝑒 in T do
12
B ← Candidate terms extraction by Section 4.2.3 ;
13
B𝑒 ← B𝑒 ∪ B;
5

6

Train a joint embedding space of words and concepts;
Extract topical words 𝐶𝑒 for internal nodes 𝑒 ∈ T ;
16 Subtopic Finding by Section 4.3.2;
17 Return topical taxonomy T ;
14
15

training samples. In our relation transferring process, we set the
threshold for relation score in Eqs. (1) and (2) to 0.7, and the threshold for KL divergence 𝛿 to 0.5. For our concept learning module, we
set the following hyperparameters for embedding training process:
embedding dimension = 100, local context window size = 5, 𝜆𝑑 =
1.5, and 𝜆𝑝 = 1.0. The threshold for Cluster Consistency is 0.5. We
use the same hyperparameters for both datasets.
Compared Methods. We compare CoRel to several previous corpusbased taxonomy construction algorithms. To the best of our knowledge, there is no seed-guided topical taxonomy construction methods where each node is represented by a cluster of words, so we
also compare CoRel with some unsupervised methods.
• Hi-Expan [30] + Concept Learning: Hi-Expan is a seed-guided
instance-based taxonomy construction algorithm, which has the
same input as our setting and constructs the taxonomy structure
by set expansion and word analogy. Since its output node is represented by single word, we apply our concept learning module
to enrich each node with a cluster of words.
• TaxoGen [40]: An unsupervised topical taxonomy construction
method. It uses spherical clustering and local-corpus embedding
to discover fine-grained topics represented by clusters of words.
• HLDA [1]: A non-parametric hierarchical topic model. It models
the generation of documents in a corpus as sampling words from
the paths when moving from the root node to a leaf node. Thus
we can take each node as a topic.
• HPAM [21]: A state-of-the-art hierarchical topic model which
requires a pre-defined number of topics and outputs topics at
different levels.

5.2

Qualitative Results

In this section we show the topical taxonomy generated by CoRel
on both datasets. We further exhibit the effectiveness of our concept
and relation learning modules by comparing with baseline methods.
Our Topical Taxonomy. Figure 4 shows the input seed taxonomy
and parts of the topical taxonomy generated by CoRel on both
datasets. For the Yelp dataset, we use minimal user input by only
giving child nodes for one input topic to test the robustness of our
method. The output in Figure 4b shows that we can find new food
types such as “soup”, “pork” and “beef”. For subtopic finding, we can
also distinguish between various western and eastern cooking style
of pork. The word clusters for each topic/subtopic are obtained by
the concept learning module trained on the corpus and the whole
taxonomy. For DBLP, we use the same input seed as Hi-Expan [30].
We show that CoRel successfully finds various computer science
fields in Figure 4d other than user’s input, such as “information
retrieval” and “pattern recognition”. CoRel is also capable of finding
separate fields for seed and new research areas found.
Subtopic Quality. We exhibit the effectiveness of our relation
learning module by comparing the subtopics we found with those
of HiExpan (seed-guided tree expansion baseline). We randomly
choose the common topics shared by both methods, and show all
subtopics found by each of them in Table 3. The bold ones are seeds
from the input taxonomy, while the wrong subtopics are marked by
(×). Since generating synonyms or included concepts at the same
level harms the overall quality of a taxonomy, we mark these terms
as redundant (✂). For example, under the topic of “DBLP-Machine
Learning”, HiExpan generates lots of synonyms and subconcepts
for “neural networks” at the same level, such as “artificial neural
networks” and “multilayer perceptron”. These terms should be
formed in the topic of “neural networks” instead of its sibling nodes.
Our design of concept learning puts these terms into the distinctive
term clusters of corresponding topics, thus avoiding such pitfalls.
Under the topic of “Yelp-Seafood”, we show that simply using
word analogy is not robust in capturing parallel relations in the
global embedding space, and it is essential to utilize more advance
text representations and operations upon them as in our relation
learning module.
Concept clusters. We wish to evaluate how well our concept learning module forms meaningful clusters. We compare with TaxoGen,
HLDA and HPAM that output hierarchical clusters of terms. Since
they do not need user-given seeds as supervision, and generate
many irrelevant topics, we set the number of topics for TaxoGen
and HPAM to 10 at each layer, and use the default setting for HLDA.
Then we manually pick out common topics/subtopics found by
different algorithms. We list the centermost 5 terms for CoRel topics/subtopics, and the 5 terms with top probability of TaxoGen,
HLDA and HPAM in Table 4. We observe that without user-given
seeds, topics from TaxoGen, HLDA and HPAM include mixtures of
cross-concept terms or irrelevant terms, while our concept learning module is able to find coherent and distinctive terms for each
concept.

5.3

Quantitative Results

In this section, we quantitatively evaluate the quality of the taxonomies constructed by different methods.

*

*

Cake

Dessert

Salad

Seafood

Ice-cream

Pastries

(a) Seed of Yelp

Dessert

Seafood

Salad

Soup

Pork

Beef

Caramel
Pudding
Strawberry
Cheesecake
Chocolate

Crabs
Clams
Crawfish
Squid
Shellfish

Dressing
Mixed Greens
Spring Mix
Lettuce
Tomato

Lentil soup
Chowder
Butternut squash soup
Tom yum soup
Noodle soup

Roasted pork
Pork shoulder
Shredded pork
Pork rind
Marinated pork

Tendon
Tripe
Shank
Sliced beef
Flank steak

Crab

Shrimps

Oysters

Fish

Char siu

Pork Steak

Sausage

Crab
King crab
King crab legs
Snow crab legs
Crab legs

Shrimp
Fried shrimp
Jumbo shrimp
Prawns
Scampi

Fresh oysters
Frog legs
Raw oysters
Oyster
Rockefeller

Seabass
Halibut
Trout
Unagi
Swordfish

Char siu
Roasted pork
Minced pork
Pork bun
Xiao long bao

Pork rib
Pork tenderloin
Chops
Crispy skin
Pork loin

Kielbasa sausage
Bacon
Crispy bacon
Sauerkraut
Ham

(b) Parts of the taxonomy generated by CoRel on the Yelp dataset
*
Machine Learning
Support vector
machines

Decision
Trees

Neural
Networks

Data Mining
Text
Mining

Web
Mining

Natural Language Processing
Association
Rule Mining

Named Entity
Recognition

Machine
Translation

Information
Extraction

(c) Seed of DBLP
*

Machine Learning

Image Processing

Data Mining

Information Retrieval

Computer Security

Pattern Recognition

Database

Statistical machine learning
Supervised learning
Ensemble learning
Transfer learning
Meta-learning

Image analysis
Edge detection
Machine vision
Image enhancement
Medical imaging

KDD
Knowledge discovery
Data analysis
Text mining
Cluster analysis

Text retrieval
Document retrieval
IR
Retrieval models
Retrieval systems

Authentication
Information security
Pki
Cryptographic
Key management

Pattern recognition
Pattern classification
Feature extraction
Image recognition
Image classification

Databases
Repositories
Biological database
Object database
Relational database

Outlier Detection

Clustering

Data Stream Miniing

Social Network Analysis

Hand-writing Recognition

Person Identification

Image Matching

Anomaly detection
Network intrusion detection
Fraud
Intrusion
Intrusion detection

Clustering methods
Clustering algorithms
Hierarchical clustering
K-means
Agglomerative clustering

Streaming data
Data stream
Temporal data
Continuous queries
Trajectory data

Online social networks
Social media
Link analysis
Communities
Centrality

Hand-written characters
Chinese characters
Character recognition
Signature verification
ocr

Personal identification
Biometrics
Iris recognition
Gabor wavelets
Biometric systems

Image matching
Zernike moments
Shape matching
Pose estimation
Shape representation

(d) Parts of the taxonomy generated by CoRel on the DBLP dataset

Figure 4: Input and part of output taxonomy generated by CoRel on DBLP and Yelp.
Table 3: Comparison of subtopics found under the same topics.
Topics

Method

DBLP-Machine
Learning

Hi-Expan

CoRel
DBLP-Data
Mining

Hi-Expan
CoRel

Yelp-Dessert
Yelp-Seafood

Hi-Expan
CoRel
Hi-Expan
CoRel

All Subtopics found
Support vector machine, Decision trees, Neural networks, Regression models, Genetic algorithm,
Naive Bayes, Classification, Random forest, Markov random field, Nearest Neighbor, Unsupervised learning,
Artificial neural networks (✂), Multilayer perceptron (✂), Support vector regression (✂),
Conditional random fields (✂), hidden markov models (✂), Radial basis function(✂), Self-organizing map (✂),
Recurrent neural networks (✂), Extreme learning machine(✂), Particle swarm optimization (×),
Support vector machine, Decision trees, Neural networks, Regression, Genetic algorithm,
Bayesian networks, Classification, Random forest, Inductive logic programming, Reinforcement learning,
Active learning, Boosting algorithms, Transfer learning, object recognition (×), Text classification (×)
association rule mining, text mining, web mining, outlier detection, anomaly detection,
spectral clustering, social network analysis, density estimation,(✂) association rules (✂)
association rule mining, text mining, web mining, outlier detection, anomaly detection,
clustering algorithms, social network analysis, data stream mining, data visualization,
online analytical processing, rule discovery, predictive modeling, sequence analysis (✂)
cake, ice cream, pastries, latte, cream, gelato, sauce (×), cheesecake (✂), taste (×), pancake (✂)
cake, ice cream, pastries, milk tea, cream, fruit, juice, cooked (×), sugar (×)
fish, shrimps, salmon (✂), meat (×), chicken (×), beef (×), steak (×), pork (×), rice (×)
fish, shrimps, crab, scallop, oysters, mussel, camarones (✂), soy sauce (×), pho (×), low mein (×)

Table 4: Topic clusters generated by different methods.
Met.

DBLP
Recommender System

DBLP
Image Matching

HPAM

TG

CoRel

face recognition
image (×)
video (×)
detection (×)
segmentation (×)

BBQ
brisket
ribs
meat (×)
good

linked data (×)
fisher criterion
wellington
social network analysis (×)
face verification
wagyu beef
recommendation systems
decision fusion (×)
dry aged
user interests
classifier design (×)
walleye (×)
user feedback
discriminative power (×) red meat (×)
recommender systems
collaborative filtering
recommendation
user preferences
user rating

image matching
zernike moments
shape matching
pose estimation
feature point

Ñ
|𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 | |𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑔𝑜𝑙𝑑 |
,
|𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 |
Ñ
|𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 | |𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑔𝑜𝑙𝑑 |
𝑅𝑟 =
,
|𝑖𝑠_𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑔𝑜𝑙𝑑 |
2𝑃𝑟 ∗ 𝑅𝑟
𝐹 1𝑟 =
𝑃𝑟 + 𝑅𝑟

Yelp
Beef

recommended items
illumination variation
reuben
recommendation framework relevant document (×) Don Juan (×)
HLDA sentimental analysis (×)
affine distortion
cutter (×)
source entropy (×)
BNMTF
corned beef
customer (×)
phase diagram (×)
turnover beef
ranking
web page (×)
propose (×)
different (×)
recommendation

The Relation F1 is computed as follow:

tendon
tripe
beef ball
flank
rare beef

Evaluation Metrics. The evaluation of the quality of a topical
taxonomy is a challenging task since there are different aspects to
be considered, and it is hard to construct a gold standard taxonomy that contains all the correct child nodes under each parent
node. Following [30, 40], we propose three evaluation metrics: Term
Coherency, Relation F1 and Sibling Distinctiveness in this study.
• Term Coherency (TC) measures the semantic coherence of
words in a topic.
• Relation F1 measures the portions of correct parent-children
pairs in a taxonomy that preserve user-interested relation.
• Sibling Distinctiveness (SD) measures how well the topics are
distinctive from their siblings.
We calculate the three metrics as follows. For TC, we recruited
5 Computer Science students to judge the results. Specifically, we
extract the top 10 representative words under each topic, ask the
evaluators to divide these words into different clusters by concepts
and compute the size of the cluster with the most words, thus a
mixture of terms from different concepts scores lower. Then we
take the mean of the results given by all the evaluators as the TC
of this topic, and average the TC of all the topics in a taxonomy.
For Relation F1, we show the evaluators all the parent-children
pairs of topics in a taxonomy and ask them to judge independently
whether each pair truly holds user-interested relation. Then we use
majority votes to label the pairs and use all the true parent-children
pairs from different methods to construct a gold standard taxonomy.
Since each topic is represented by a cluster of words, for simplicity,
we consider two clusters as the same if they share the same concept.

𝑃𝑟 =

(8)

where 𝑃𝑟 , 𝑅𝑟 and 𝐹 1𝑟 denote the Relation Precision, Relation Recall
and Relation F1, respectively.
Finally, we calculate Sibling Distinctiveness (SD) as follows: we
compute the similarity between a topic cluster 𝐶𝑖 and each of its
sibling topics 𝐶 𝑗 by Jaccard index [5]. Then we calculate SD of 𝐶𝑖 as
1 minus the largest similarity score among all 𝐶 𝑗 . A larger SD means
the sibling topics sharing a common parent are truly separate from
each other.
Evaluation Results. Table 5 shows the Term Coherency (TC), Relation F1, and Sibling Distinctiveness (SD) of different methods. For
unsupervised baselines, we only take relevant topics (topics with
more than half terms belonging to food or research areas) into account. Overall, weakly-supervised methods (Hi-Expan and CoRel)
outperform unsupervised methods by a large margin, which shows
the constructed taxonomies are well guided by the user given seeds.
We can see that CoRel achieves the best performance under all
evaluation metrics, especially in terms of the Relation F1, showing
that CoRel is able to find related terms for each concept and retain ones holding certain relations with current topics in relation
transferring module. For TC, CoRel also significantly outperforms
HLDA, HPAM and TaxoGen, which model the intrinsic distribution
of terms in documents or corpus, and might generate topics as
mixtures of terms relevant but not distinctive of user-interested
topics. They also have inferior performance in SD since they do not
enforce distinctiveness when forming topics. On the other hand,
though HiExpan + Concept Learning only achieves slightly worse
or equal results on TC and SD compared with ours, HiExpan itself
only outputs an instance taxonomy and cannot generate topics
for each concept node. We enhance it by our own concept learning module to extract distinctive terms for each node. This further
demonstrates the effectiveness of both of our modules.

6

CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK

In this paper we explore the problem of seed-guided topical taxonomy construction. Our proposed framework CoRel completes
the taxonomy structure by a relation transferring module and enriches the semantics of concept nodes by a concept learning module.
The relation transferring module learns the user-interested relation preserved in seed parent-child pairs, then transfers it along
multiple paths to expand the taxonomy in width and depth. The
concept learning module finds discriminative topical clusters for
each concept in the process of jointly embedding concepts and
words. Extensive experiments show that both modules work effectively in generating a high-quality topical taxonomy based on
user-given seeds.
For future work, it is interesting to study how we can generate
multi-faceted taxonomy automatically, so that each concept node
is described by terms from different aspects (e.g., ingredients and
cooking style for foods). Though these terms can be captured by our

Table 5: Quantitative evaluation on topical taxonomies.
Methods
HLDA
HPAM
TaxoGen
Hi-Expan + CoL.
CoRel

TC

SD

DBLP
Precision𝑟

Recall𝑟

F1-score𝑟

TC

SD

Yelp
Precision𝑟

Recall𝑟

F1-score𝑟

0.582
0.557
0.720
0.819
0.855

0.981
0.905
0.979
0.996
1.000

0.188
0.362
0.450
0.676
0.730

0.577
0.538
0.429
0.532
0.607

0.283
0.433
0.439
0.595
0.663

0.517
0.687
0.563
0.815
0.825

0.991
0.898
0.965
1.000
1.000

0.135
0.173
0.267
0.429
0.564

0.387
0.615
0.381
0.677
0.710

0.200
0.271
0.314
0.525
0.629

concept learning module, how to recognize them and organize them
into meaningful clusters remains challenging and worth exploring.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Research was sponsored in part by US DARPA KAIROS Program
No. FA8750-19-2-1004 and SocialSim Program No. W911NF-17-C0099, National Science Foundation IIS 16-18481, IIS 17-04532, and
IIS 17-41317, and DTRA HDTRA11810026. Any opinions, findings,
and conclusions or recommendations expressed herein are those of
the authors and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing the views, either expressed or implied, of DARPA or the U.S.
Government. The U.S. Government is authorized to reproduce and
distribute reprints for government purposes notwithstanding any
copyright annotation hereon. We thank anonymous reviewers for
valuable and insightful feedback.

REFERENCES
[1] David M. Blei, Thomas L. Griffiths, Michael I. Jordan, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum.
2003. Hierarchical Topic Models and the Nested Chinese Restaurant Process. In
NIPS.
[2] Haw-Shiuan Chang, ZiYun Wang, Luke Vilnis, and Andrew McCallum. 2017. Distributional Inclusion Vector Embedding for Unsupervised Hypernymy Detection.
In NAACL-HLT.
[3] Philipp Cimiano, Andreas Hotho, and Steffen Staab. 2004. Comparing Conceptual,
Divise and Agglomerative Clustering for Learning Taxonomies from Text. In
ECAI.
[4] Sarthak Dash, Md. Faisal Mahbub Chowdhury, Alfio Massimiliano Gliozzo, Nandana Mihindukulasooriya, and Nicolas R. Fauceglia. 2019. Hypernym Detection
Using Strict Partial Order Networks.
[5] Barry de Ville. 2001. Introduction to Data Mining.
[6] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In
NAACL-HLT.
[7] Brendan J. Frey and Delbert Dueck. 2007. Clustering by passing messages between
data points. Science 315 5814 (2007), 972–6.
[8] Ruiji Fu, Jiang Guo, Bing Qin, Wanxiang Che, Haifeng Wang, and Ting Liu. 2014.
Learning Semantic Hierarchies via Word Embeddings. In ACL.
[9] Tianyu Gao, Xu Han, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2019. Hybrid AttentionBased Prototypical Networks for Noisy Few-Shot Relation Classification. In
AAAI.
[10] Xu Han, Hao Zhu, Pengfei Yu, Ziyun Wang, Yuan Yao, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong
Sun. 2018. FewRel: A Large-Scale Supervised Few-shot Relation Classification
Dataset with State-of-the-Art Evaluation. In EMNLP.
[11] Marti A. Hearst. 1992. Automatic Acquisition of Hyponyms from Large Text
Corpora. In COLING.
[12] Jiaxin Huang, Yiqing Xie, Yu Meng, Jiaming Shen, Yunyi Zhang, and Jiawei Han.
2020. Guiding Corpus-based Set Expansion by Auxiliary Sets Generation and
Co-Expansion. Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020 (2020).
[13] Yuval Kluger, Ronen Basri, Joseph T. Chang, and Mark B Gerstein. 2003. Spectral
biclustering of microarray data: coclustering genes and conditions. Genome
research 13 4 (2003), 703–16.
[14] Zornitsa Kozareva and Eduard H. Hovy. 2010. A Semi-Supervised Method to
Learn and Construct Taxonomies Using the Web. In EMNLP.
[15] Matt Le, Stephen Roller, Laetitia Papaxanthos, Douwe Kiela, and Maximilian
Nickel. 2019. Inferring Concept Hierarchies from Text Corpora via Hyperbolic
Embeddings. In ACL.
[16] Xueqing Liu, Yangqiu Song, Shixia Liu, and Haixun Wang. 2012. Automatic
taxonomy construction from keywords. In KDD.

[17] Yu Meng, Jiaxin Huang, Guangyuan Wang, Zihan Wang, Chao Zhang, Yu Zhang,
and Jiawei Han. 2020. Discriminative Topic Mining via Category-Name Guided
Text Embedding. In WWW.
[18] Yu Meng, Jiaxin Huang, Guangyuan Wang, Chao Zhang, Honglei Zhuang,
Lance M. Kaplan, and Jiawei Han. 2019. Spherical Text Embedding. In NeurIPS.
[19] Yu Meng, Yunyi Zhang, Jiaxin Huang, Yu Zhang, Chao Zhang, and Jiawei Han.
2020. Hierarchical Topic Mining via Joint Spherical Tree and Text Embedding. In
KDD.
[20] Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Gregory S. Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean.
2013. Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality. In NIPS.
[21] David M. Mimno, Wei Li, and Andrew McCallum. 2007. Mixtures of hierarchical
topics with Pachinko allocation. In ICML ’07.
[22] Ndapandula Nakashole, Gerhard Weikum, and Fabian M. Suchanek. 2012. PATTY:
A Taxonomy of Relational Patterns with Semantic Types. In EMNLP-CoNLL.
[23] Roberto Navigli and Paola Velardi. 2010. Learning Word-Class Lattices for Definition and Hypernym Extraction. In ACL.
[24] Roberto Navigli, Paola Velardi, and Stefano Faralli. 2011. A Graph-Based Algorithm for Inducing Lexical Taxonomies from Scratch. In IJCAI.
[25] Maximilian Nickel and Douwe Kiela. 2017. Poincaré Embeddings for Learning
Hierarchical Representations. In NIPS.
[26] Meng Qu, Xiang Ren, Yu Lin Zhang, and Jiawei Han. 2017. Weakly-supervised
Relation Extraction by Pattern-enhanced Embedding Learning. In WWW.
[27] Xin Rong, Zhe Chen, Qiaozhu Mei, and Eytan Adar. 2016. EgoSet: Exploiting
Word Ego-networks and User-generated Ontology for Multifaceted Set Expansion.
In WSDM.
[28] Jingbo Shang, Jialu Liu, Meng Jiang, Xiang Ren, Clare R. Voss, and Jiawei Han.
2017. Automated Phrase Mining from Massive Text Corpora. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering 30 (2017), 1825–1837.
[29] Jiaming Shen, Zeqiu Wu, Dongming Lei, Jingbo Shang, Xiang Ren, and Jiawei
Han. 2017. SetExpan: Corpus-Based Set Expansion via Context Feature Selection
and Rank Ensemble. In ECML/PKDD.
[30] Jiaming Shen, Zeqiu Wu, Dongming Lei, Chao Zhang, Xiang Ren, Michelle T.
Vanni, Brian M. Sadler, and Jiawei Han. 2018. HiExpan: Task-Guided Taxonomy
Construction by Hierarchical Tree Expansion. ArXiv abs/1910.08194 (2018).
[31] Vered Shwartz, Yoav Goldberg, and Ido Dagan. 2016. Improving Hypernymy
Detection with an Integrated Path-based and Distributional Method. ArXiv
abs/1603.06076 (2016).
[32] Rion Snow, Dan Jurafsky, and Andrew Y. Ng. 2004. Learning Syntactic Patterns
for Automatic Hypernym Discovery. In NIPS.
[33] Livio Baldini Soares, Nicholas FitzGerald, Jeffrey Ling, and Tom Kwiatkowski.
2019. Matching the Blanks: Distributional Similarity for Relation Learning. In
ACL.
[34] Paola Velardi, Stefano Faralli, and Roberto Navigli. 2013. OntoLearn Reloaded: A
Graph-Based Algorithm for Taxonomy Induction. Computational Linguistics 39
(2013), 665–707.
[35] Ivan Vendrov, Ryan Kiros, Sanja Fidler, and Raquel Urtasun. 2015. OrderEmbeddings of Images and Language. CoRR abs/1511.06361 (2015).
[36] Chi Wang, Marina Danilevsky, Nihit Desai, Yinan Zhang, Phuong Nguyen,
Thrivikrama Taula, and Jiawei Han. 2013. A phrase mining framework for
recursive construction of a topical hierarchy. In KDD ’13.
[37] Julie Weeds, David J. Weir, and Diana McCarthy. 2004. Characterising Measures
of Lexical Distributional Similarity. In COLING.
[38] Grace Hui Yang and James P. Callan. 2009. A Metric-based Framework for
Automatic Taxonomy Induction. In ACL/IJCNLP.
[39] Shuo Yang, Lei Zou, Zhongyuan Wang, Jun Yan, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2017. Efficiently
Answering Technical Questions - A Knowledge Graph Approach. In AAAI.
[40] Chao Zhang, Fangbo Tao, Xiusi Chen, Jiaming Shen, Meng Jiang, Brian M. Sadler,
Michelle Vanni, and Jiawei Han. 2018. TaxoGen: Unsupervised Topic Taxonomy
Construction by Adaptive Term Embedding and Clustering. In KDD ’18.
[41] Yuchen Zhang, Amr Ahmed, Vanja Josifovski, and Alexander J. Smola. 2014.
Taxonomy discovery for personalized recommendation. In WSDM ’14.
[42] Maayan Zhitomirsky-Geffet and Ido Dagan. 2005. The Distributional Inclusion
Hypotheses and Lexical Entailment. In ACL.

