What Should Developers Be Aware Of? An Empirical
Study on the Directives of API Documentation
Martin Monperrus1,2

Michael Eichberg1

Elif Tekes1

Mira Mezini1

arXiv:1205.6363v1 [cs.SE] 29 May 2012

Abstract
Application Programming Interfaces (API) are exposed to developers in order to reuse software libraries. API directives are natural-language statements in API documentation that make
developers aware of constraints and guidelines related to the usage of an API. This paper
presents the design and the results of an empirical study on the directives of API documentation of object-oriented libraries. Its main contribution is to propose and extensively discuss a
taxonomy of 23 kinds of API directives.

1

Introduction
“Reuse is something that is far easier to say than to do. Doing it requires both good
design and very good documentation. Even when we see good design, which is still
infrequently, we won’t see the components reused without good documentation.” D.
L. Parnas, cited by Fred Brooks, The mythical man-month: Essays on software engineering [9, page 224 (1995 edition)]

Developers of reusable software elements — such as software libraries — generally have the
responsibility to provide high-quality and comprehensive documentation [20]. As the above quotation shows, Parnas goes even further and states that reuse is not possible without good documentation. However, the research on library documentation is in stark contrast to its importance
[25]. Actually, it is required to have a clear understanding of what documentation contains in
order to build a wide range of software engineering tools. For example, to find inconsistencies
between documentation and code or to automatically infer missing yet important documentation.
To improve the understanding of source code documentation, we did an extensive case study of
existing library documentation.
We consider a library as the implementation of some functionality that is meant to be reused
by other developers. In case of object-oriented programming languages, such as Java and C#,
a library consists of a coherent collection of classes. In general, a library has two parts: the
public interface and the private implementation. The former contains software elements (e.g.
classes and methods) that other developers are allowed and expected to use; this part is called
the application programming interface or API. The latter implements the library’s functionality,
but is usually not exposed to the library’s users and is not further considered in this paper. For
instance, the Java Development Kit (JDK) is a multipurpose library that provides as part of its API
classes for input and output (IO) (e.g. java.io.File) and to build graphical user interfaces (using
the javax.swing classes). However, the details how the IO functionality is implemented on a given
operating system and how the elements of the graphical user interface are created given a specific
windowing toolkit are not exposed to the users of the library.
To foster reuse, application programming interfaces (APIs) are delivered with some documentation which — in its broadest sense — explains how to use the library. Accordingly, the scope
of API documentation is very large: it spans different kinds of information and also has to satisfy
different kinds of audiences. For instance, API documentation may contain typical usage scenarios, code snippets, design rationales, performance discussions, and contracts. The scope of the
1 Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
2 University of Lille, France

1

In: Empirical Software Engineering, Springer, Online Edition, 2011. DOI: 10.1007/s10664-011-9186-4

targeted developers ranges from complete novices who have never used the API to experts who
are able to tweak every single piece of the API.
In this paper, we concentrate on the parts of an API’s documentation that describe directives
[14, 10]. API directives are natural-language statements that make developers aware of constraints and guidelines related to the usage of an API. Directives are manifold and are related to,
e.g., development issues, performance questions or software evolution. In other terms, pieces of
an API’s documentation that describe how to correctly and optimally use a library are API directives. This definition encompasses Dekel’s [14] and Bruch’s [10] definition of API directive, but is
a bit broader to provide enough leeway to accommodate natural language subtleties.
Next, we present three different directives from three different software packages to sketch the
scope of API directives.
The documentation of the constructor of the standard Java class java.security.Timestamp states
that “@param timestamp is the timestamp’s date and time. It must not be null”. In this case the
directive is that the parameter must not be null. In general, if developers are not aware of this
directive and pass a null value to the corresponding method, an exception will probably be raised.
Violations of such directives are usually detected in a timely manner, likely during unit testing and
can easily be resolved.
The directive “HashedMap is not synchronized and is not thread-safe” (in the API documentation
of Apache Commons Collections) is related to the proper synchronization of the class if it is used in
a multi-threaded program. A violation of this constraint will eventually result in synchronization
related bugs that are often erratic and hard to locate and to resolve.
The documentation of the constructor Item(parent,style) of the class org.eclipse.swt.widgets.Item
states that “the style value [an integer] is either one of the style constants defined in class SWT which
is applicable to instances of this class, or must be built by bitwise OR’ing together (that is, using the
int "|" operator) two or more of those SWT style constants.”. If a developer now passes an integer
value where certain bits are not taken into account by the implementation, the behavior of the
method is left undefined. This means that if the SWT designers later on decide to use further bits,
the behavior of the client program may change and behave unexpectedly.
To our knowledge, the research on the nature of API directives is very limited. Dekel [14]
mentions them and some books on API design shallowly touch the topic (e.g. [37]), but a thorough
analysis has not been carried out so far. To improve our understanding of API directives, we have
designed and performed an empirical study that explores directives of large and widely used APIs.
We (the authors) have read more than 6000 pieces of Java API documentation. For each of them,
we tried to understand whether it is related to a directive and, if it is a directive, how it can be
classified. The case-study protocol and the results are made public, to enable other researchers to
conduct replication studies.
The contributions of this paper are:
• a comprehensive taxonomy of API directives that are present in API documentation of objectoriented libraries written in Java (Figure 2). Each directive kind of this taxonomy is discussed in depth and is supported by examples from the examined APIs. Furthermore, for
each directive kind we give a first estimation of its abundance to indicate how valuable it
would be to devise automated approaches to support its specification, analysis or checking.
• a set of empirical results on the links between words in an API’s documentation and their
importance with respect to pinpointing to API directives (Table 3). The collected data is publicly available as electronic supplementary material as well as in [21]. Subsequent work may
use it to calibrate documentation tools that use natural language processing, for instance to
highlight the most important phrases according to a predicted likelihood.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the related work and
Section 3 describes the setup of our empirical study. The taxonomy of directive kinds is given in
Section 4. Section 5 further discusses our findings. Section 6 concludes this paper.

2

2

Related Work

In this section, we discuss other research related to software documentation. We first show that
not all code comments are API documentation (2.1), then sketch the gap (2.2) between expert
recommendations on how to write documentation and empirical guidelines, followed by the key
difference (2.3) between action and observational research. We conclude by exposing other empirical studies (2.4) on APIs and showing that the closest work (2.5) – to our knowledge – is
subject to improvement.

2.1

Code Comments

Padioleau et al. [23] published an empirical study of comments in operating system code. They
examined 1050 comments from three different operating system kernels and thereafter built a
taxonomy of comments that has four axes: the content, the audience, the related source element
and the evolution in time. Storey et al. [29] and Ying et al. [39] also did empirical work related to
source code documentation. They focused on source code comments that represent so called task
annotations (e.g. TODO or FIXME). Jiang et al. studied [19] the evolution of comments over time.
All these authors focused on code comments, which is different in nature from API documentation.
On the contrary, we are interested in API documentation that is written to enable the efficient
use of libraries. This is very different from the goal of many source code comments found in
operating system code which explain the code for the sake of maintenance and often provide
insights about the development history. Second, we focus on API comments of object-oriented
libraries, whose scope is significantly different from comments of procedural C code in the context
of operating systems. Similarly, API documentation has a completely different purpose when
compared to task annotations.

2.2

Top-down Recommendations for API Documentation

Several authors defined what should be present in API documentation in a top-down way. I.e.,
they enumerated lists of important pieces of documentation for each kind of API element (package,
class, method, field). For instance, Sun published a technical report entitled “Requirements for
Writing Java API Specifications” [28]. One of the lead developers of the Eclipse platform1 , Boris
Bokowski also emphasized providing appropriate and precise content in API documentation [7, 6].
Our work differs from this in that 1) we follow a bottom-up approach, i.e. we first did an
empirical study of the documentation of high-quality libraries before formulating some guidelines
and 2) we only focus on the part of API documentation related to directives and not on the whole
API documentation.

2.3

Tool-oriented Research

Especially the recent work by Stylos et al. [35, 33, 30, 31] explores various kinds of tool-support
for software documentation. For instance, Jadeite [33] enriches Java API documentation with
additional information aggregated from real users in order to help developers to find the right
class or the right method. Along the same line, Dekel and Herbsleb [14] proposed an approach
and a tool to improve the awareness of developers of directives.
On the contrary, our paper presents observational research. We do not devise or build a tool,
but rather observe the reality and try to gain knowledge out of it. However, this knowledge is
meant to be used by future work in order to build advanced documentation tools.

2.4

Empirical Studies on APIs

Many empirical studies on APIs have been carried out. For instance, authors explored the issue of
API usability [11, 16, 32, 34, 38] with a focus on the API design. Shi et al. [26] concentrated on
1 Eclipse is an extensible development environment primarily targeted for Java.

3

the evolution of API documentation and Parnin et al. [24] on the power of the World Wide Web
to find API documentation.
However, none of the previous studies analyzed the content and especially the directives of
API documentation as we do in this paper.

2.5

API Contracts and Directives

Arnout and Meyer [2] showed in 2003 that hidden API contracts can be recovered from different
sources of information, including API documentation. Their paper proves that hidden contracts
actually exist by presenting some of them found in the .NET library. In contrast, our empirical
study provides a comprehensive overview of those “contracts” that are explicitly stated.
As part of his Ph.D. thesis Dekel [13] did a deep study related to API directives. Both his
approach and ours are empirical. However, three major differences exist compared to Dekel’s
seminal work. First, our study is supported by an empirical design that supports replication (see
Section 3) while Dekel’s study is more informal. Second, our case-study protocol supports measuring the abundance of each kind of directives. Third, our study is larger in scope: we tried
to identify “all” kinds of directives. In particular, we provide a thorough analysis of directives
related to subclassing. On the contrary, apart from protected versus private visibility directives,
the directives related to subclassing and interface implementation were not in the scope of Dekel’s
work.

3

Case Study Protocol

In this section, we discuss the case study that we have carried out to answer the following research
questions: Which kinds of API directives exist? How can API directives be classified? According to
Easterbrook et al. [15], the first one is a “description question” and the second one a “classification
question” and both types of questions can be answered with an exploratory case study.
The outcome of the case study is a taxonomy of API directives. By taxonomy, we mean a set
of categories, logically organized in groups of related categories. The taxonomy is not meant to
be exclusive, i.e. certain directives may belong to several categories. In the following, we use the
term “directive kind” to refer to a category of API directives. Next, we first outline how we carried
out the case study before we describe it in more detail.

3.1

Case-study Protocol

To obtain a taxonomy of directives, we analyzed a large amount of API documentation in order to
get a deep understanding of the nature of API directives. The overall process can be summarized
as follows:
1. We first determined the corpus of API documentation to be analyzed (this step is further
discussed in Section 3.1.1). For instance, the API of java.io is an element of the corpus
that we have analyzed.
2. The second step was to identify the syntactic patterns that are likely to reveal directives.
For instance, “must” is a syntactic pattern that may reveal a directive such as “The method
parameter must not be null.”
3. For each syntactic pattern, all occurrences of it are automatically identified in the analyzed
API documentation.
4. For each pair of syntactic pattern and API, we analyzed as many occurrences of the given
pattern as necessary to get statistically significant results. Analyzing an occurrence means
deciding whether it is a directive and – if so – whether it is a new kind of directive or an
instance of an already identified directive kind.

4

JDK

JFace

Target Platform
Development Model

Java

Java

Company-driven
(Sun)

Open-source
and
company-driven
(IBM)

Open-source
and
community-driven

Purpose

IO, Data structures,
Concurrency, Security

User-interfaces

Data structures

950
8 361
671
189
33
10 204
1 055 220

648
5 918
404
264
38
7 272
264 952

205
2 586
263
31
13
3 098
114 895

API Comment Location
field
method
class
interface
package
# API elements
# Words

Commons
Collections
Java

Table 1: Key figures of our API documentation corpus. The large majority of API comments is at
the method level. There is a total of 20 574 API documentation elements.
3.1.1

Determining an API Corpus

Given the vast amount of available object-oriented libraries, it is necessary to limit the study to a
set of representative libraries.
To identify possible candidate libraries, we first grossly characterized the libraries along the
following three properties: “the target platform”, “the development model” and “the purpose” of
the library. Practically, all libraries have a specific purpose and are developed to solve a set of
well-defined, highly-related programming tasks. Nevertheless, the scope of libraries is still very
different. For instance, the scope is very narrow for a logging library or a library that implements
graph algorithms such as JGraphT2 . But, in case of Java’s java.io library the scope is broader.
It provides functionality to read from/write to files and also sockets; i.e., it supports desktop as
well as distributed applications. Most libraries target a specific platform, such as Java3 or .NET4 ,
and are highly dependent on it. Using such a library to develop an application that targets a different platform is often practically impossible. It would at least require the development of some
special bindings to make the library useable on a different platform or even require a complete
reimplementation of the library. The development model of libraries range from completely free,
community driven libraries (e.g. the C++ Boost library5 ) over company-driven libraries that are
open-source or at least free to use (e.g. the Microsoft Foundation Classes6 ), to closed-source,
commercial libraries.
For our study, we consider the API documentation of packages from the official Java Development Kit, the Eclipse project, and from the Apache foundation. For the JDK, we considered java.lang, java.util, java.io, java.math, java.net, java.rmi, java.sql, java.security, java.text, and
java.applet. The API documentation was extracted from the source code of the JDK7 , version jdk6u21-ea-src-b05-jrl-29_may_2010.jar. We also analyzed the API documentation of Eclipse’s JFace
library8 , CVS version of Oct. 15 20099 . JFace is a UI toolkit mainly used by the Eclipse IDE and
respective plug-ins. Finally, we also took into account the API of the Apache Commons Collections
library10 , revision 1000473. The Commons Collections API provides general-purpose implemen2 see http://jgrapht.sourceforge.net
3 see http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/index.html
4 see http://www.microsoft.com/net/
5 see http://www.boost.org/
6 see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/d06h2x6e(v=VS.100).aspx
7 This version of JDK is available at http://download.java.net/jdk6/6u21/promoted/b05/
8 see http://wiki.eclipse.org/index.php/JFace
9 $ cvs -d :pserver:anonymous@dev.eclipse.org/cvsroot/eclipse/ co -D "15 Oct 2009" org.eclipse.jface
10 see http://commons.apache.org/collections/

5

Category
control flow
generic
restrictions
performance
concurrency
alternative
subclassing
warning

Syntactic Patterns
call*, invo*, before, after, between, once, prior
must, mandat*, require*, shall, should, encourage*, recommend*, may
assum*, only, debug*, restrict*, never, condition*, strict*,
necessar*, portab*, strong*
performan*, efficien*, fast, quick, better, best
concurren*, synchron*, lock*, thread*, simultaneous*
desir*, alternativ*, addition*
extend*, overrid*, overload*, overwrit*, reimplement*,
subclass*, super*, inherit*
warn*, aware*, error*, note*
Table 2: Concerns and the associated syntactic patterns

tations of collection classes (e.g. List, Set, etc.).
We selected these libraries because they have a wide scope and they are supported by large
organizations. By choosing libraries that cover a wide range of use cases we try to alleviate the
risk that the study is biased towards a particular domain. The decision to focus on APIs supported
by large organizations is based on the evidential observation that the level and the quality of
their documentation is often high. Large organizations typically have the financial means and also
interest to support the documentation process; e.g. by employing technical writers.
Table 1 shows the characteristics of the chosen APIs, and in particular the number of API
documentation items per type of code element. It shows the number of API documentation items
per type of code element. We can see that w.r.t. the size of the documentation the three considered
APIs are roughly comparable. The last row gives the total number of words per API. With an
average of 500 words per page, the whole API documentation amounts to 2 800 pages of text.
Given the sheer size of our API corpus (see Table 1), it is not possible to read the whole documentation. Hence, we decided to first select syntactic patterns that are likely to reveal directives,
and then to analyze a sample of occurrences of those patterns. For instance, the word “must” is
a syntactic pattern that indicates important information, and we could analyze 20% of all paragraphs containing “must”.
The list of syntactic patterns shown in Table 3.1.1 is the union of:
• The patterns mentioned in RFC #2119, “Keywords for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
Levels” [8], that is: “must”, “should”, “require*”, “shall”, “mandat*”, “encourage*”, “recommend*”, and “may”.
• A list of terms related to inheritance contracts. This enables us to find API directives related
to subclassing. This list is based upon our work on subclassing directives [10] and encompasses: “extend*”, “overrid*”, “overload*”, “overwrit*”, “reimplement*”, “subclass*”, “inherit*”,
and “super*”.
• The patterns described/found in “Requirements for writing java API specifications” [28]
(Sun technical report), “Improving API documentation usability with knowledge pushing”
[14] (conference paper at ICSE), and “Designing Eclipse APIs” as well as “Java API Design”
[7, 6] (tutorials by IBM).
• Skimming the documentation of 1000 pieces of API documentation randomly selected across
the whole corpus.
This list contains multiple patterns that can occur in the same sentence or paragraph and may
then reveal multiple kinds of directives. Note that skimming the documentation was primarily
meant to find syntactic patterns, not kinds of API directives (see Section 3.1.3).

6

3.1.2

Finding all Occurrences of a Syntactic Pattern

To find all occurrences of a syntactic pattern, we indexed the whole API corpus11 . Using a web
based interface we were then able to query the API corpus in a way similar to Google Search. For
instance, the query “+content:must +dataset:jface” returns all occurrences of API documentation
in the JFace library that contain “must”.
3.1.3

Manual Analysis of API Sentences and Paragraphs and Construction of the Taxonomy

A key part is the manual analysis of API sentences and paragraphs that contain occurrences of the
syntactic patterns. For a given occurrence of a syntactic pattern, the analysis consists of reading
the whole API comment and to make two decisions. First, whether the context of the occurrence
(sentence or paragraph) actually refers to a directive. Second, whether the taxonomy already
contains one or more directive kinds in which the directive can be classified. The four authors of
this paper made this analysis themselves. Each single pattern occurrence was analyzed by one of
us, unless the analysis proved to be difficult. Indeed, when one of the authors encountered an
obscure API comment that is hard to understand/to classify, we discussed it together to make the
two aforementioned decisions. Furthermore, when we came across an API comment "smelling"
like a directive, but not fitting in any of the existing kinds of the taxonomy, we discussed the
comment together to make sure that it is a directive and – if so – to agree on its definition and to
find a good name.
To support this analysis, we have designed and implemented a web application that enables
the simultaneous, collaborative analysis of API documentation. A screenshot of the application
is shown in Figure 1. The main feature of the application is that it enables to tag pieces of API
documentation with a directive kind (cf. the select widget and button in Figure 1). To foster
discussion, it also supports commenting every piece of API documentation. One crucial feature of
the tool is that it automatically tracks the links between analyzed occurrences of syntactic patterns
and the associated directive kind(s).
Note that we also permitted tagging directives that were found through serendipity: for instance tagging the next sentence of a pattern occurrence or even tagging directives found with
free search over the API documentation database.
Figure 1: Searching, reading, and identifying directives is supported with an ad hoc browser-based
tool

3.1.4

Sampling and Stopping Criterion

For a given dataset and a given syntactic pattern, we use our tool to get the list of all occurrences
to be analyzed. The sampling is then done by automatically shuffling the list and starting with the
11 To create and query the index, we used Lucene, see http://lucene.apache.net

7

analysis of the first element. Given that the decision whether an occurrence is a directive or not is
a binary decision, the proportion of directives revealed by a pattern is a standard proportion estimation. The stopping criterion is thus the minimum number M IN of occurrences to be analyzed
in order to ensure that the estimated proportion is in a certain interval at a certain confidence
level. The standard statistical formula is [27, Sec. 3.7]:
M IN =

n0
n0 −1
1 + populationSize

(1)

n0 depends on the selected confidence level and the desired error margin e. n0 is calculated
using the formulae: n0 = (Z 2 ∗0.25)/e2 , where Z is a confidence level’s z-score. At 95% confidence
level Z is 1.96. This formula is sometimes also presented as n0 = 4 ∗ (Z 2 ∗ 0.25)/B 2 , where B is
the error interval, i.e. B = 2 ∗ e. When the population size is large enough, MIN tends towards
a constant (e.g. 384 for e = 5% at 95% confidence level); this is known as proportion estimation
for large populations.
Our stopping criterion consists of analyzing MIN API elements for e = 10% at 95% confidence
level. For instance, 1448 elements of the JDK’s API documentation elements contain at least
one occurrence of “may”. If we analyze M IN = 91 elements, we are sure that the estimated
proportion has a maximum error margin e of 10% at 95% confidence level, i.e. p = x ± 10%
(where x is the measured proportion on 91 items).
We chose e = 10% because it keeps the number of elements to be analyzed at a manageable
level (5042 API elements for all 3 datasets and 53 concerns) while still giving us enough confidence in the results. Note that for certain keywords, due to a previous version of the case study,
we analyzed many more API elements than MIN, as we will see in Section 5.

3.2

Validity

3.2.1

Completeness of the Taxonomy

In this section, we discuss whether the taxonomy – resulting from our exploratory case study – is
complete, i.e. whether we miss an important directive kind. For this, we list the main threats to
validity and discuss the taken counter-measures.
One possible threat is that the analyzed corpus is too small or is not representative. However,
we think that every API corpus of a certain size and quality will reveal all major directive kinds.
Analyzing more APIs would not yield any significant changes in the taxonomy. Though, defining
hard criteria to decide whether an API corpus is large enough and representative is not possible, we
are still convinced that it is the case for the chosen API corpus for the following reasons. Our API
corpus covers a broad range of different domains (collections, IO, UI, math, SQL, security); and it
covers different kinds of API usage such as inheritance or instantiation. Furthermore, the corpus
covers three documentation processes employed by three different major software organizations
(Sun, Eclipse and Apache) and the documentation has been written by a large number of different
authors.
A second threat is that the list of syntactic patterns is too small. However, our list of syntactic
patterns is the result of 4 different processes (see Section 3.1.1) involving elements from the
technical and academic literature, and browsing pieces of API documentation randomly selected
across the whole corpus. Also, the use of patterns may miss some directives, we are confident that
it is unlikely that we completely missed a kind of directive.
Third, manual analyses are always error-prone. To mitigate this threat, we took care that the
analysis was made by people with a strong background in (Java) software development. The
whole analysis was made by us, the authors of this paper. Three of us hold a doctorate in software
engineering, and one of us is a graduate student who is working on her master’s thesis. Second,
while doing the study, we frequently discussed our intermediate findings and the content of the
taxonomy to ensure that everyone has the same understanding of each directive kind. However,
we did not perform any inter-rater reliability measurement. Even though it is likely that the
tagging of some occurrences is at least subjective – if not even wrong – the risk of completely
missing a directive kind and deriving meaningless results is negligible.

8

As a result, we believe that the probability of missing an important directive kind is very low.
As for any empirical result, a replication study would be required to increase the confidence in our
empirical findings.
3.2.2

Generalizability of the Taxonomy

W.r.t. the generalizability of the taxonomy we believe – for the same reasons as presented in
Section 3.2.1 – that our API corpus and list of syntactic pattern is large enough and well-designed
so that our taxonomy is generalizable to a large extent to all Java APIs, i.e. no major directive
kind is missing and no kind is specific to just one API/to our specific API corpus.
Additionally, it is our conviction that the directive kinds emerge from the power and the limitations of the programming language, as well as from the usual design and implementation patterns.
Hence, we assume that the taxonomy should also be valid for languages that are conceptually close
to Java, for instance C#. But, to validate this claim, further studies and replications are required.
3.2.3

Reliability and Generalizability of the Abundance

The process underlying our case-study and the tool to support it enables us to measure the abundance of each directive kind. However, making strong claims based on the presented measures
is not possible. As already outlined in the previous paragraphs, some statements in an API’s documentation may or may not be identified as being a directive based on the point-of-view of the
analyst or the point-in-time of the analysis. More important – and as shown by the analysis in
Section 5.2 – the abundance significantly varies across the API corpus. Hence, our measure of
abundance will not hold for all Java APIs.

4

A Comprehensive Taxonomy of API Directive Kinds

This section discusses the results of the exploratory case study described in the previous section
(3). We present a comprehensive taxonomy of the kinds of API directives that we found in the
analyzed corpuses; the taxonomy is presented in Figure 2. Please recall, that we consider as a
directive, a natural-language statement that makes developers aware of constraints and guidelines
related to the correct and optimal usage of an API. Accordingly, a directive kind is a set of directives
that share the same kind of constraints or guidelines. For instance, we represent a concrete directive
such as: “@param Document [...] This parameter must not be null”, by a directive kind related to
null values and method parameters, which is called “Not Null Directive”.
We think that this taxonomy must be described in a systematic manner in order to avoid ambiguity and facilitate understanding and dissemination. To achieve this goal, we present all directive
kinds using the same pattern. The used pattern is inspired by those used for object-oriented design
patterns introduced by [17] and the pattern used by Cockburn for use-cases [12]. To some extent,
the whole set of directive kinds forms a pattern language to write API documentation [1].
For each directive kind, we specify the following information:
Name A short name to memorize the directive kind.
Definition The explanation of the directive.
Discussion The rationales behind the existence of the directive kind and further relevant observations. This also includes – whenever possible – the consequences of not being aware of
corresponding directives.
Prototypical example A real directive from the corpus that is a prime example for the respective
kind of directives. We chose those examples, from which we think that they are particularly
gripping and illustrative.
For some directives, we are able to specify the following additional information:
Use-cases The different scenarios in which directives of the respective kind are used. Each scenario is described as a use-case.
9

Good practices Explanation of good practices to achieve clarity and completeness when describing corresponding directives.
Anti-patterns Clear anti-patterns that should be avoided when describing directives in the documentation.
The presentation of directive kinds is ordered by abundance, i.e. the directive kinds that often
appear in documentation come first (see section 5.2 about the abundance).

4.1

Method Call Directive

Method call directives in general express constraints and guidelines when calling a particular library
method. Instances of this directive kind, for example, restrict the values input parameters are
allowed to take or prescribe how a method’s returned value or object has to be used. Given the
broad scope of method call directives, we have further refined this directive kind to be able to
precisely capture each sub-kind of a method call directive. Each sub-kind is explained in the
following sections.
4.1.1

Not Null Directive

“Not Null” directives state that a specific method parameter must not be null.
Discussion Most object-oriented languages such as Java allow method parameters to be null. It is
thus possible to assign an application-/context-specific meaning to the null value. However, there
is no default semantics for method parameter values; i.e., users of libraries can neither assume
that null is allowed nor that it is forbidden. By means of a “not null directive” this vagueness
is remedied. Not being aware of not null directives often leads to bugs that show up immediately and which are easily identified. In many cases, developers directly get a runtime exception
(NullPointerException for Java) if they pass a null object as method parameter.
Prototypical examples Using the @param documentation tag: “@param iterator the iterator to
add to the collation, must not be null”12 . Using a tag related to exceptions (@exception, @throws).
For instance “@throws NullPointerException if name is null.”13
Anti-pattern Each library should adopt one strategy where and how the constraint is specified
that a certain method parameter must not be null. For example, a library should not sometimes
specify the directive using an @param tag and sometimes using an @throws tag or specify it as
part of the general documentation.
4.1.2

Return Value Directive

A “Return Value” directive states a required property on the object or value that is returned by a
method implementation. A “Return Value” directive makes explicit what client code can assume.
Discussion It is important for client code to know which assumption it can make on returned
objects and values. This significantly reduces the amount of defensive code (such as a not-null
check). When the directive is attached to an abstract or interface method, a return value directive
is a contract that implementors must satisfy. When it is attached to a concrete method with
an implementation, it documents which property the return value has. In the former case, this
directive kind is also a subclassing directive.
Some return value directives can become quite complex: “The returned information control creator
must create information controls that implement IInformationControlExtension3 and IInformationControlExtension2, and IInformationControlExtension2.setInput(Object) accepts all inputs that are
also supported by this information control.”14
12 in Commons Collections’ CollatingIterator.addIterator(iterator)
13 in JDK’s RuntimePermission.RuntimePermission(name, actions)
14 in JFace’s IInformationControlExtension5.getInformationPresenterControlCreator()

10

Not Null
Return Value
Method Visibility
Exception Raising
Null Allowed
String Format
Method Call Directive

Number Range
Method Parameter Type
Method Parameter Correlation
Post-Call
Miscellaneous
Method Overriding
Extensible Class Identification
Method Implementation
Method Extension

Subclassing Directive

Non-local Consistency Subclassing
Method Call Contract
Miscellaneous

State

Method Call Sequence

API Directive
Alternative

Non Call-based

Synchronisation
Miscellaneous
Figure 2: Taxonomy of API directives Resulting from of our Empirical Study.

11

Prototypical examples To specify the required precision: “The computed result must be within 1
ulp of the exact result.”15 ; To specify that null is a possible return value: “Returns the receiver’s
parent, which must be a Shell or null.”16 ; To specify ordering: “@return an array of integer arrays
of 2 elements. Ranges must be in ascending order and must not overlap..”17 ; To specify a relationship
between the return value and a parameter: “An implementation of this method must either return
a class with the given name or throw an exception.”18 ; To specify the internal state of the returned
object: “The returned control’s layout data must be an instance of GridData.”19 .
4.1.3

Method Call Visibility Directive

A “Method Call Visibility Directive” is a directive that defines the visibility of a method. Contrary
to state directives (see Section 4.3), they do not put restrictions on the state of the receiver of the
method call, but on the calling context.
Discussion Given standard language features such as packages and visibility modifiers, it is not
always possible to precisely define the allowed/supported calling contexts. The visibility is sometimes a permission (e.g. “you may call this method”) and sometimes a restriction (e.g. “you should
not call this method”). The visibility is sometimes indirect: for instance, in a class-level documentation item, “This class may be instantiated” actually means that the constructor or the factory
method is visible.
Prototypical examples “It should not be called from application code.”20 , “Constructor only used
in deserialization, do not use otherwise.”21 , “This method is internal to the framework; subclassers
should not call this method.”22 .
4.1.4

Exception Raising Directive

An “Exception Raising Directive” states a requirement on the exceptions thrown by a method
implementation. The requirement may concern: 1) the type of an exception that may be thrown;
2) the situations in which an exception has to be or is thrown; 3) an exception that must never be
thrown.
Discussion Java supports so-called checked exceptions and unchecked exceptions. In the former
case, exception raising requirements of subclasses of Exception can be expressed using throws
declarations in method signatures. However, requirements on others kinds of exceptions have to
be expressed as exception raising directives. Although developers are necessarily aware of checked
exceptions by the programming language, it is still necessary to document them to describe when
and why they are thrown. Exception directives are often documented with @exception or @throws
Javadoc tags.
Prototypical examples “@exception IllegalArgumentException if groupID is null.”23 , “This constructor also must throw an IllegalArgumentException if it does not understand the parameters input.”24 ,
“DOM applications must not raise exceptions in a filter.”25 .
Anti-pattern Stating an exception raising directive that makes several implementation strategies
possible. For instance, “@throws IllegalStateException implementations may, but are not required
to, throw this exception if the entry has been removed from the backing map.”26 . In this case, a
developer who calls the interface method has no guarantee how the method will behave.
15 in JDK’s Math.cos(a)
16 in JFace’s Dialog.getParent()
17 in JDK’s JobAttributes.getPageRanges()
18 in JDK’s RMIClassLoaderSpi.loadClass(codebase, name, defaultLoader)
19 in JFace’s PopupDialog.createDialogArea(parent)
20 in JDK’s Logger.setParent(parent)
21 in Commons Collections’ AbstractOrderedMapDecorator.AbstractOrderedMapDecorator()
22 in JFace’s ListEditor.getShell()
23 in JDK’s ActivationDesc.ActivationDesc(groupID, className, location, data, restart)
24 in JDK’s PolicySpi
25 in JDK’s LSParserFilter
26 in JDK’s Map.Entry.getKey()

12

4.1.5

Null Allowed Directive

A “Null Allowed” directive specifies that a method parameter is allowed to be null and explains
the specific semantics of the null value for the respective parameter.
Discussion This is the dual directive of the “Not Null” directive (see Section 4.1.1). In contrast
to the “Not Null” directive, nothing bad will happen if a developer misses this directive. The
developer will simply miss some functionality provided by the method.
Prototypical examples “null means that the catalog name should not be used to narrow the search”27 ,
“If this parameter is null, then only a specified keyStroke will invoke content proposal”28 ,
Anti-pattern Stating that null is allowed (e.g. “may be null”), but not specifying the semantics of
passing null.
4.1.6

String Format Directive

A “String Format” directive prescribes the allowed format of a string that is passed in as a method
parameter.
Discussion In general, it is a best practice to use structured objects rather than strings as method
parameters (cf. [5, page 50], “Avoid strings where other types are more appropriate”). However, in
some cases using a plain String object makes the client code much more concise and readable. The
two prime examples, where strings are usually used as input parameters are regular expressions
and the printf method and its variants. As in case of the “Number Range” directive, we did find
instances where the use of an enumeration where each enum-value is associated with a string,
would be an improvement. We further found instances of “String Format” directives where there
is an obviously more appropriate type (such as File for denoting files29 ).
Prototypical examples “The name must conform to RFC 2965.”30 , “@param name Permission
name. Must be either "monitor" or "control".”31
4.1.7

Number Range Directive

A “Number Range” directive states that only certain values of a number’s domain are allowed to
be used. The directive is applicable to method parameters that represent numbers — e.g. byte,
int, long, short, float, double and the corresponding wrapper classes (Integer, BigInteger, etc.)
Discussion In some cases a method parameter is only allowed to take a value in a specific range.
For example, to specify the id of a port on which to wait for incoming network connections (e.g.,
the port id must be in the range [0,...,65535]). Given that it is in Java (as well as in other mainstream programming languages) not possible to define a (value) type that only allows values in a
specific range, a value type is chosen that can accommodate the corresponding values and an additional API directive is specified. The directive then specifies the restriction on the allowed values.
We did found a number of instances of number range directives, where the range is a strictly finite
set of discrete values and where each value has a very specific meaning. In such cases it would be
advisable to use an Enumeration (e.g., using Java’s “enum” feature) to improve the comprehensibility and readability of the code. E.g. “@param autoGeneratedKeys one of the following constants:
Statement.RETURN_GENERATED_KEYS or Statement.NO_GENERATED_KEYS”32 .
27 In JDK’s DatabaseMetaData.getColumnPrivileges(catalog, schema, table, columnNamePattern)
28 In JFace’s ContentProposalAdapter.setAutoActivationCharacters(autoActivationCharacters)
29 Runtime.load(filename):
“The filename argument must be a complete path name, (for example Runtime.getRuntime().load("/home/avh/lib/libX11.so");)”
30 in JDK’s HttpCookie.HttpCookie(name, value)
31 in JDK’s ManagementPermission.ManagementPermission(name, actions). Although this may seem to be a bad design,
we include it here since examples like this do appear in the APIs we studied.
32 in JDK’s Statement.execute(sql, autoGeneratedKeys)

13

Prototypical examples “The port must be between 0 and 65535, inclusive.”33 , “@param scale the
desired number of digits to the right of the decimal point. It must be greater than or equal to zero.”34
4.1.8

Method Parameter Type Directive

A “Method Parameter Type Directive” restricts the allowed type of method parameters.
Discussion Type systems are generally not able to express all meaningful/desired type constraints.
We did found instances of this directive where it was used to state that the method violates the
contract of the superclass. For instance, java.sql.Timestamp which inherits from java.util.Date states
that it violates the contract of the method compareTo which accepts a Date object as parameter.
The compareTo method of the subclass states: “Compares this Timestamp object to the given Date,
which must be a Timestamp object.”
Prototypical examples “@param obj must be a Number or a Date.”35 , “The CertPath specified must
be of a type that is supported by the validation algorithm, otherwise an InvalidAlgorithmParameterException will be thrown.”36 , “@param obj [typed as Object] the object to be serialized (must be
serializable) [i.e. must implement the interface Serializable]”37 .
4.1.9

Method Parameter Correlation Directive

A “Method Parameter Correlation Directive” describes inter-dependencies involving two or more
parameters of a method.
Discussion There is no language construct to express those dependencies. However, it sometimes
reveals a bad design that could be fixed by means of assigning more appropriate parameter types
and method overloading.
Prototypical exampless “If the given key is of type java.security.PrivateKey, it must be accompanied
by a certificate chain certifying the corresponding public key.”38 , “The reader must contain the number
of characters specified by length otherwise a SQLException will be generated when the CallableStatement is executed.”39 .
4.1.10

Post-Call Directive

A “Post-Call” directive prescribes what immediately needs to be done with the returned object. It
is a special case of a “Method-call Sequence” directive (see Section 4.3.1) which does not involve
multiple method calls and which is generally related to finishing the setup/initialization of the
returned object.
Discussion It is not always possible to encapsulate all behavior in a single method, especially
when the behavior depends on client code. In such cases, a “Post-Call” directive states what
remains to be done.
Prototypical examples “The returned parameter object must be initialized via a call to init, using
an appropriate parameter specification or parameter encoding.”40 , “The return value should always
be checked to make sure that the rename operation was successful.”41
33 in JDK’s ServerSocket.ServerSocket(port, backlog, bindAddr)
34 in JDK’s CallableStatement.registerOutParameter(parameterIndex, sqlType, scale)
35 in JDK’s DateFormat.format(obj, toAppendTo, fieldPosition)
36 in JDK’s CertPathValidator.validate(certPath, params)
37 in JDK’s MarshalledObject.MarshalledObject(obj)
38 in JDK’s KeyStore.setKeyEntry(alias, key, password, chain)
39 in JDK’s CallableStatement.setNClob(parameterName, reader, length)
40 in AlgorithmParameters.getInstance(algorithm)
41 in JDK’s File.renameTo(dest)

14

4.1.11

Miscellaneous Method Call Directives

This section presents method call directives that can not be classified using the aforementioned
directive kinds and which were too rare and to fuzzy to warrant a directive kind on their own (less
than 20 items on the whole corpus).
Complex directive involving the type and the history of the parameter “@param obj the server
object for which a stub is required. Must either be a subclass of PortableRemoteObject or have been
previously the target of a call to exportObject”42
Complex directive involving the application life-cycle and concurrency issues “Shutdown hooks
run at a delicate time in the life cycle of a virtual machine and should therefore be coded defensively.
They should, in particular, be written to be thread-safe and to avoid deadlocks insofar as possible.
They should also not rely blindly upon services that may have registered their own shutdown hooks
and therefore may themselves be in the process of shutting down.”43

4.2

Subclassing Directive

A “Subclassing” directive states a requirement that has to be satisfied when subclassing a library
class; such directives are, e.g., related to how and when to extend a library class, implementing
a library interface, overriding a library method, implementing an abstract library method (or a
method from a library interface). This section deepens the empirical findings of our previous
work [10], which introduced the concept of “subclassing directives”.
4.2.1

Method Overriding Directive

A “Method Overriding” directive specifies whether a method is intended or expected to be overridden by client subclasses. Here, overriding is used in its broadest sense: implementing an abstract
method, replacing the default implementation, or extending the default implementation by calling
super. It can be constructive (e.g. “may” or “should”) or restrictive (e.g. “should not”).
Discussion Method overriding directives tell client developers what methods are intended or expected to be overridden, but using standard (Java) language features, it is not possible to express
general method overriding directives. In particular, protected methods can always be overridden
by library subclasses and client subclasses. However, library designers often need to enable subclasses to override a specific method, but simultaneously want to maximize the encapsulation and,
hence, do not want client code to override a specific method.
Prototypical examples “The subclass of ActivationGroup must override this method and unexport
the object.”44 , “Subclasses may override any of the following methods: isLabelProperty, getImage,
getText, dispose”45 , “Subclasses can override this to match differently.”46 .
Anti-pattern Using terminology related to the overriding of methods (override, extend, re-implement,
overwrite and implement), without a strict agreement on the precise semantics. Based on our
experience, it seems that some developers understand “override” as discarding the library implementation (i.e. not calling super) and other understand “extend” as a requirement to call the
library implementation using a super call. However, both uses do have counter-examples and this
can lead to confusion.
4.2.2

Extensible Class Identification Directive

An “Extensible Class Identification” directive indicates to what extent classes and interfaces of
a library can be subclassed by developers. It can be constructive (e.g. “may” or “should”) or
restrictive (e.g. “should not”).
42 in JDK’s PortableRemoteObject.toStub(obj)
43 in JDK’s Runtime.addShutdownHook(hook)
44 in JDK’s ActivationGroup.inactiveObject(id)
45 in JFace’s LabelProvider
46 in Apache Commons Collections’ AbstractLinkedList.isEqualValue(value1, value2)

15

Discussion In object-oriented libraries, there is generally a mix of classes to be instantiated and
classes to be subclassed. Even if the API only contains public classes (i.e. which are allowed
to be used by clients), developers need to know whether the main usage of the API classes is
instantiation or inheritance.
Prototypical examples “If the programmer desires thread-local variables to have an initial value
other than null, ThreadLocal must be subclassed, and this method overridden.”47 , “For providing the
label’s styles, create a subclass and overwrite update(ViewerCell) to set all information needed to
render a element.”48
Anti-pattern Designating a class as extensible, without stating the condition or the scenario in
which subclassing happens. E.g.“This class is intended to be subclassed by implementors.” or “An
abstract implementation of a linked list which provides numerous points for subclasses to override.”49 .
4.2.3

Method Implementation Directive

A “Method Implementation” directive states a requirement or contract on the implementation of
a given method that is related neither to the returned value nor to raising exceptions.
Discussion This directive expresses general contracts for method implementors; it generally applies to abstract methods, interface methods and methods that are intended to be overridden.
Prototypical examples “If the scale is reduced by the operation, the unscaled value must be divided
(rather than multiplied), and the value may be changed”50 , “This method must not modify the parent’s
layout.”51 , “According to the Collection.remove(Object) method, this method should only remove the
first occurrence of the given object, not all occurrences.”52 .
Anti-pattern Writing the directive such that it can be confused with an implementation comment,
e.g. "Returns an item taken from the internal list" instead of "Must return an item that is taken
from the internal list". This is particularly important for methods that already have a body, since
there is no way to differentiate between implementation comments and contracts.
4.2.4

Method Extension Directive

A “Method Extension” directive states whether an application-level method – overriding a library
method – has to execute the default implementation by calling super.
Discussion In practice, it is not always possible or desirable to design extension points by means
of abstract methods. However, the code of an overridable method can contain important functionality with respect to the control-flow or the state of the library. Method extension directives
document this fact.
Prototypical examples “Subclasses may override but must call super.doFillIntoGrid.”53 , “Code overriding this method should call super.removeNotify as the first line of the overriding method.”54 , “Subclasses which override this method should make sure they call super”55 .
47 in JDK’s ThreadLocal.initialValue()
48 in JFace’s StyledCellLabelProvider
49 in Apache Commons Collections’ AbstractLinkedList
50 in JDK’s BigDecimal.setScale(newScale, roundingMode)
51 in JFace’s Dialog.createDialogArea(parent
52 in Apache Commons Collections’ Bag.remove(object)
53 in JFace’s StringFieldEditor.doFillIntoGrid(parent, numColumns)
54 in JDK’s Component.removeNotify()
55 in Apache Commons Collections’ AbstractLinkedList.init()

16

4.2.5

Non-local Consistency Subclassing Directive

A “Non-local Consistency Subclassing” directive states that clients have to satisfy consistency requirements that span multiple overridable methods. For instance, a consistency subclassing directive may state that two methods have to be overridden together.
Discussion For some reason (e.g. readability, modularity, reusability), certain functionality is
implemented using several methods or classes, but there is a general contract – e.g. an invariant
spanning those elements – that needs to be satisfied.
Use-cases When two methods have to be overridden together, e.g. “The visibility of the details
button is controlled by shouldShowDetailsButton(), which should also be overridden together with
this method.”56 or “Note that it is generally necessary to override the hashCode method whenever
this method is overridden, so as to maintain the general contract for the hashCode method, which
states that equal objects must have equal hash codes.”57 . When two classes have to be overridden
together, e.g. “Concrete subclasses of ColumnViewer should implement a matching concrete subclass
of ViewerColumn.”58 When a method has to be overridden together with a client implementation
of a library interface, e.g. “Clients may implement this interface and override TextViewer.createDocumentAdapter if they want to intercept the communication between the viewer’s text widget and the
viewer’s document.”59 When the returned value of a method (here format) must be in the range
of valid input values of another method (here parseObject), e.g. “Generally, a format’s parseObject
method must be able to parse any string formatted by its format method.”60 .
4.2.6

Call Contract Subclassing Directive

A “Call Contract Subclassing Directive” directive states whether an application-level method –
overriding a library method – has to execute certain library methods other than just calling the
super method.
Discussion As for “Method Extension” directives, the control-flow or the state of a library sometimes has to be maintained through client-level calls to library methods. Method call directives
document these requirements.
Prototypical examples “Subclasses must call this method at the end of their constructor(s)”61 , “If
this method is overridden, the method that overrides it should additionally check to see if the calling
thread has the RuntimePermission("modifyThread") permission, and if so, return silently.”62 .
Anti-pattern Being vague either on the method to be called or on the context in which the call
must happen, for instance “The message, image and title should be updated by the subclass”63 puts
the responsibility of figuring out the corresponding methods on the developer who uses the dialog.
A second example is: “All subclasses must call this method when their control is first established.”. In
this case the questions is: “Where and how is the control generally established?”
4.2.7

Miscellaneous Subclassing Directives

This section presents other kinds of subclassing directives that can not be classified in the aforementioned directive kinds and which are rare (less than 20 items on the whole corpus).
Documentation Directive Such directives state that the implementation must document certain
pieces of information (which can themselves be directives). For instance, “An implementation is
56 in JFace’s ErrorDialog.createDropDownList(parent)
57 in JDK’s Object.equals(obj)
58 in JFace’s ViewerColumn
59 in JFace’s IDocumentAdapter
60 in JDK’s Format
61 in JFace’s AbstractInformationControl.create()
62 in JDK’s SecurityManager.checkAccess(t)
63 in JFace’s ErrorDialog

17

required to clearly document the semantics and guarantees provided by each of the waiting methods”64
or “Each class that implements PrivilegedExceptionAction should document what (if anything) this
value represents.”65
Directive on the required constructor of a class “The class [specified by java.system.class.loader]
is loaded using the default system class loader and must define a public constructor that takes a single
parameter of type ClassLoader which is used as the delegation parent.66

4.3

State Directives

A “State Directive” is a requirement on the internal state of receivers of a given method call. Most
state directives that we found are expressed as method call sequences; i.e. first method A has to
be called before method B can be called/has to be called (see Section 4.3.1). But, some are more
complex and have state related constraints that are beyond method call sequences.
4.3.1

Method Call Sequence Directive

A “Method Call Sequence” directive specifies an object usage protocol. In particular, such directives specify the order of method calls.
Discussion In many cases, a method can only be called when an object is in a certain state.
Though approaches were proposed to formally specify method object protocols as part of the
source code or documentation [4, 3], no support exists in standard programming languages.
Prototypical example “The getKeyStore method must be invoked before this method may be called.”67
Use-cases Before a method can be used for the first time, its initialization has to be finished, e.g.,
“You must add at least one Comparator before calling the compare(Object,Object) method”68 . Certain
method call sequence are conditional, e.g. “Should be called whenever needsInput() returns true
indicating that more input data is required.”69 . To restrict the number of times a method is called,
e.g. “This method may only be called once; the call must occur before JFaceResources.getFontRegistry
is invoked.”70 .
Anti-pattern Not precisely stating the methods that are involved in the sequence, for instance “A
group must first be registered with the ActivationSystem before it can be created via this method”71
or “For client sockets, setReceiveBufferSize() must be called before connecting the socket to its remote
peer.”72 .
4.3.2

Non Call-based State Directive

A “Non Call-based State” directive states a requirement on the application state that is not expressible as a method call sequence. If the application is in the specified state certain method calls
are allowed to be made.
Discussion Same arguments as in Section 4.3.1.
Use-cases To express that certain resources associated with the object have to be available at the
point in time of calling the method, for instance “[This object] is valid only during the paint and
must not be disposed”73 . To refer to the state of external resources, e.g. the file system “If this
64 in JDK’s Condition
65 in JDK’s PrivilegedExceptionAction.run()
66 in JDK’s ClassLoader.getSystemClassLoader()
67 in JDK’s KeyStore.Builder.getProtectionParameter(alias)
68 in Apache Commons Collections’ ComparatorChain.ComparatorChain()
69 in JDK’s Inflater.setInput(b)
70 in JFace’s JFaceResources.setFontRegistry(registry)
71 in JDK’s ActivationGroup.createGroup(id, desc, incarnation)
72 in JDK’s Socket.setReceiveBufferSize(size)
73 in SWT’s Event.gc

18

pathname denotes a directory, then the directory must be empty in order to be deleted.”74 . To express
a requirement on the ownership of an object (that can not be expressed in Java), for instance
“@param caller the principal invoking this method. It must be an owner of this ACL.”75 or “The
current thread must own this object’s monitor.”76

4.4

Alternative Directive

An “Alternative” directive states that there are alternative implementations of a given API element.
Discussion Often, in the same API; multiple ways exist to achieve the same goal, each of them
making different trade-offs.
Use-cases To specify the method or class that replaces a deprecated method or class. (The
widely used @deprecated tag is on its own not sufficient, e.g. “@deprecated since 3.1 use @link
org.eclipse.jface.text.DefaultIndentLineAutoEditStrategy instead”77 ). To indicate a more efficient implementation, e.g. “The StringBuilder class should generally be used in preference to this one, as it
supports all of the same operations but it is faster, as it performs no synchronization.”78
Anti-pattern Stating an alternative directive with no rationales or conditions, e.g. “Subclassers are
advised to override inputChanged rather than this method”79 . Such directives raise more questions
than they answer.
Good practice Alternative directives often consist of only two alternatives: the “better” and the
“unrecommended” one. A good practice is then to state the alternative directive in the API documentation at least in the “unrecommended” element to minimize the risk of missing the directive.

4.5

Synchronization Directive

A “Synchronization” directive states some information regarding the impact of concurrency on an
API element.
Discussion Synchronization directives state what needs to be considered or needs to be done
when using a specific API element in a concurrent program. Often, this kind of directive is expressed in a passive manner, such as “If multiple threads access a hash map concurrently, and at
least one of the threads modifies the map structurally, it must be synchronized externally.”80 .
Use-cases To warn that an API element is not ready for use in concurrent environments, i.e. there
is a risk of race conditions; for instance “Note that FixedSizeMap is not synchronized and is not
thread-safe. If you wish to use this map from multiple threads concurrently, you must use appropriate
synchronization.”81 To give concrete guidelines on how to solve library related concurrency problems (e.g. by acquiring a lock, checking the status of a lock, or creating a synchronized block); for
instance, “Implementations must synchronize on the hierarchy lock.”82 To state that the implementors are responsible for correctly handling concurrency, e.g. “The public methods of all CertStoreSpi
objects must be thread-safe.”83 . In this case, it is a kind of subclassing directive as exposed in
Section 4.2.
74 in JDK’s File.delete()
75 in JDK’s Acl.removeEntry(caller, entry)
76 in JDK’s Object.wait(timeout)
77 in JFace’s DefaultAutoIndentStrategy
78 in JDK’s StringBuffer
79 in JFace’s ContentViewer.setInput(input)
80 in JDK’s HashMap
81 in Apache Commons Collections’ FixedSizeMap
82 in JDK’s BeanContextSupport.addAll(c)
83 in JDK’s CertStoreSpi

19

4.6

Miscellaneous Directive

Interestingly, certain directives present in the API documentation are not related to the API usage
itself, but to the software environment in general. Here are two kinds of such directives, which
have been encountered several times.
Directive for implementors of Java compilers “Compilers must ignore any warning names they
do not recognize.”84
Directives related to elements external to the API “The driver’s behavior must be consistent with
a particular DBMS, either always continuing to process commands or never continuing to process
commands.”85 . Note that this consistency directive involves two different kinds of collaborators:
the Java library itself, and the external DBMS.

5

Findings

In this section, we discuss the other findings from our exploratory case study. We provide insights
on the suitability of syntactic patterns for finding directives (5.1), and on the abundance of each
directive kind (5.2). We also further compare our taxonomy against Dekel’s one (5.3) and provide
a first set of guidelines on how to write API directives based on our experience. Note that we
already discussed the completeness and the generalizability of our results in Section 3.

5.1

Precision of Syntactic Patterns to Find Directives

As previously described, we searched the API documentation for directives by means of syntactic
patterns and our tool automatically records the links between patterns and directive kinds. Hence,
we are able to compute the precision of patterns – i.e., the ratio of occurrences revealing an API
directive.
For instance, the syntactic pattern “invo*” occurs 50 times in the API documentation of Apache
Commons Collection. If we then analyze 35 occurrences and classify 22 of them as directives, the
precision of “invo*” would be 22/35 = 62.9%. As discussed in Section 3.1.4, we can also measure
the error margin of the estimation, based on the chosen confidence level and the population size.
If one analyzes all occurrences, the error margin is 0%. In the previous example, for 35 analyzed
occurrences out of 50 occurrences, the precision is 62.9 ± 9.2%.
Table 3 presents the precision of all patterns in relation to the respective API. The numbers
in brackets represent the absolute number of analyzed pattern occurrences. We can see that the
precision of patterns varies largely. For instance, the pattern “between”, that we thought would
identify object protocol directives, turns out to have a low precision across all APIs, i.e., many
occurrences are not directives (e.g. “This font field editor implements chaining between a source
preference store and a target preference store.”). On the contrary, certain patterns have a high
precision. For example, the precision of “must” varies between 78.6% for the JDK and 98.2% for
Apache Commons Collections.
Furthermore, we can see that the precision of a syntactic pattern depends on the particular
API. For instance, “warn*” has a precision of ≈ 26.9% for Java but a precision of 81.8% for Commons Collections. One explanation for such huge differences is our observation that in an API’s
documentation often specific conventions and idioms are used. If such a convention describes a
directive and contains a specific pattern, it will then result in a high precision. Furthermore, also
according to our experience, API documentation is full of redundancy and copy/pasted content.
If a pattern marks such content, it also triggers a high precision. For instance “WARNING: This
method is binary incompatible with Commons Collections 2.1 and 2.1.1.” appears many times in
Commons Collections, and consequently yields a high precision for “warn*”
Given these results, we think it is neither meaningful to aggregate the precision of a syntactic
pattern w.r.t. finding directives across different APIs nor to generalize on a syntactic pattern’s precision. The precision of patterns to find directives depends too much on the application domain,
84 in JDK’s SuppressWarnings.value()
85 in JDK’s Statement.executeBatch()

20

Concern
must
mandat*
require*
should
encourage*
recommend*
may
extend*
overrid*
overload*
overwrit*
reimplement*
subclass*
super*
inherit*
note*
efficien*
reus*
desir*
alternativ*
addition*
warn*
aware*
error*
concurren*
synchron*
lock*
thread*
fast
quick
call*
invo*
performan*
restrict*
never
condition*
strict*
necessar*
portab*
strong*
assum*
only
debug*
before
after
between
once
prior
secur*
better
best

Java
78.6±0.3% (740)
42.9±0.0% (7)
70.3±3.4% (232)
67.5±0.3% (750)
76.2±8.7% (21)
88.4±8.9% (43)
60.5±5.5% (258)
22.6±8.7% (62)
90.8±6.3% (130)
57.1±9.6% (14)
10.0±9.8% (10)
0.0±0.0% (2)
77.0±6.6% (139)
79.0±8.4% (62)
28.9±9.8% (38)
66.3±9.1% (101)
72.9±9.7% (48)
21.4±6.7% (28)
49.2±9.7% (59)
45.5±9.2% (33)
46.0±10.0% (63)
26.9±9.9% (26)
66.7±0.0% (9)
89.3±9.3% (103)
79.0±9.1% (81)
87.2±8.6% (78)
63.2±9.8% (68)
65.9±6.2% (179)
73.9±7.1% (23)
0.0±0.0% (2)
75.2±4.8% (343)
68.0±8.9% (103)
45.7±8.8% (46)
66.0±9.8% (47)
60.0±9.5% (60)
61.3±9.9% (62)
50.0±10.0% (34)
58.6±9.9% (70)
92.9±9.6% (14)
42.9±10.0% (28)
42.0±9.6% (50)
77.5±7.7% (138)
11.5±9.0% (26)
74.2±9.0% (89)
60.7±9.5% (84)
38.8±9.7% (67)
57.6±10.0% (59)
71.7±9.8% (53)
75.8±9.5% (91)
57.1±0.0% (28)
27.5±9.7% (40)

JFace
94.4±5.4% (179)
- (0)
58.3±6.2% (72)
83.9±5.7% (205)
100.0±0.0% (6)
95.5±9.2% (22)
93.7±3.3% (351)
68.7±0.0% (163)
85.1±0.7% (249)
100.0±0.0% (2)
75.0±0.0% (20)
97.4±0.0% (39)
94.5±0.6% (452)
69.6±4.6% (46)
0.0±0.0% (1)
67.6±9.3% (74)
55.0±9.1% (20)
54.5±8.9% (11)
51.7±10.0% (29)
63.2±9.6% (19)
31.9±9.5% (47)
25.0±6.8% (20)
27.3±0.0% (11)
38.5±10.0% (52)
0.0±0.0% (1)
11.1±0.0% (9)
16.7±0.0% (6)
78.4±8.5% (37)
100.0±0.0% (2)
22.6±9.9% (31)
73.5±4.6% (260)
41.7±8.5% (48)
75.0±0.0% (4)
50.0±0.0% (4)
78.3±9.9% (46)
0.0±0.0% (6)
- (0)
30.8±9.5% (26)
- (0)
- (0)
52.9±10.0% (34)
68.4±9.6% (76)
41.2±0.0% (17)
52.5±9.5% (59)
57.4±9.9% (54)
22.9±9.7% (48)
58.6±10.0% (29)
66.7±0.0% (6)
- (0)
100.0±0.0% (1)
40.0±0.0% (5)

commons.collections
98.2±0.3% (330)
25.0±0.0% (4)
29.6±6.9% (27)
76.4±5.6% (55)
100.0±0.0% (4)
0.0±0.0% (1)
57.1±7.5% (84)
16.7±4.1% (24)
94.4±0.0% (54)
- (0)
0.0±0.0% (2)
- (0)
81.7±5.4% (60)
20.0±8.9% (15)
- (0)
77.1±6.4% (48)
50.0±0.0% (12)
0.0±0.0% (7)
100.0±0.0% (2)
85.7±0.0% (7)
7.3±2.4% (41)
81.8±0.0% (11)
- (0)
50.0±0.0% (16)
87.5±0.0% (32)
74.6±3.7% (71)
75.0±0.0% (12)
70.5±5.5% (44)
20.0±0.0% (5)
- (0)
56.3±9.5% (71)
62.9±9.2% (35)
53.8±0.0% (13)
50.0±0.0% (2)
76.9±0.0% (13)
0.0±0.0% (1)
0.0±0.0% (1)
13.0±4.3% (23)
- (0)
- (0)
29.4±0.0% (17)
40.7±2.8% (91)
0.0±0.0% (4)
35.7±3.3% (42)
58.1±9.1% (43)
6.7±0.0% (15)
41.9±0.0% (31)
0.0±0.0% (4)
- (0)
100.0±0.0% (3)
0.0±0.0% (2)

Table 3: The ability of syntactic patterns to reveal directives. The percentages result from our
manual analysis, the error is given at 95% confidence level. An error margin of 0% means that
we analyzed all occurrences. The number in brackets represents the number of comments we
analyzed. A dash means that the syntactic pattern can not be found in this dataset
21

on the documentation conventions, and also on the personal style of the particular documentation
writers.

5.2

Abundance of Directive Kinds

We now present our measures of abundance for each directive kind.
As in case of the precision, the classification of each directive’s abundance may change if the
dataset or the syntactic patterns are changed (cf. Section 3). Table 4 summarizes our abundance
measures. The first column is the directive kind. The second to forth columns give the absolute
numbers of directives for a given directive kind and API. The fifth column summarizes the previous
three columns. The sixth column gives the frequency of this directive with respect to the number
of analyzed API documentation elements (in our case 4561). For instance, 13% of the analyzed
API elements contain at least a Not Null Directive. Finally, the column “Abundance” gives a quick
intuition of the abundance, which is easier to grasp than the presented metric. It is inspired from
ecology, and uses the ACFOR scale (Abundant, Common, Frequent, Occasional, Rare)86 .
The mapping between the number of instances and the ACFOR scale is as follows. We first
computed the average of abundance frequency A (4.07%). We say that a directive kind is abundant
if it appears more than 2A%, common if its frequency F ≥ 1.5A%, frequent if F ≥ A, occasional
is F ≥ 0.5 ∗ A and rare otherwise. If all directive kinds are equally abundant (i.e. F = A for all
kinds), the abundance would be frequent for all, which is the middle of the scale. The goal of this
mapping is to give an intuitive understanding of the numbers, even though it is arbitrary. In total,
66.5% of the analyzed API elements contain at least one directive of our taxonomy.
In general, the more abundant a directive kind, the more value there is in providing automatic
or semi-automatic tool support for them. For instance, Hovemeyer presented [18] an approach
to identify null references as part of the FindBug tool. According to our results, such approaches
address an important, practical problem, since “Not Null” directives are abundant.
We chose not to provide a comparison of the frequency of directive kinds between APIs, because there is no way to identify the controlled variable responsible for the differences. It is
impossible to determine whether it would be due to the domain of the API, the documentation
process, the maturity of the documentation, or to the author’s style.

5.3

Comparison with Dekel’s Taxonomy

Dekel [13] defines nine kinds of directives: restrictions, alternatives, protocols, parameters, return
values, threading, side-effects, limitations and performance. These nine kinds of directives and
ours are related as described next.
Dekel’s restrictions directives are related to all kinds of method invocation restrictions. In
our taxonomy, restriction is a cross-cutting concern, and we classify the directives in this category
corresponding to their semantics. For instance, we classify the directive “Subclasses should not call
the super implementation.”87 as a method extension directive, and “It should not be called from
application code.”88 as a method visibility directive. Furthermore, we sometimes map Dekel’s
restriction directives to state directives and method call sequence directives in particular.
In case of the Alternative, Protocol, Parameter, Return Values, Threading directive kinds, we
basically have the same understanding and use the same category, but often identified many more
concrete directives. An exception is, however, Dekel’s protocols directives which we classify as
state directives, because – from our point-of-view – a protocol encodes state transitions. Dekel’s
Threading directives are called synchronization directives in our case.
The categories “side-effects”, “limitations” and “performance” defined by Dekel highlight a
minor difference in the interpretation of the term directive between Dekel and us. For us, a
directive always has an impact on the client code (e.g. adding tests before a method call, or the
synchronized modifier in a method signature). Dekel also writes “the most important property of
a directive clause is that it demands an action from the caller or suggests such an action.”. However,
86 see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abundance_(ecology)
87 In JFace OwnerDrawLabelProvider.erase(event, element)
88 in JDK’s Logger.setParent(parent)

22

Kind
Method Call Directive
Not Null Directive
Return Value Directive
Method Call Visibility Directive
Exception Raising Directive
Miscellaneous Method Call Directive
Null Semantics Directive
String Format Directive
Number Range Directive
Method Parameter Type Directive
Method Parameter Correlation Directive
Post-Call Directive
Subclassing Directive
Method Overriding Directive
Extensible Class Identification Directive
Method Implementation Directive
Method Extension Directive
Non-local Consistency Subclassing Directive
Call Contract Subclassing Directive
Miscellaneous Subclassing Directive
State Directive
Method Call Sequence Directive
Non Call-based State Directive
Alternative Directive
Synchronization Directive
Miscellaneous Directive
Total

JDK
965
28
148
78
156
144
61
122
80
59
75
14
376
95
10
127
46
45
22
31
224
157
67
199
105
126
1995

JFace
276
34
52
93
13
19
19
1
13
10
2
20
683
364
186
12
45
30
32
14
92
77
15
119
10
13
1193

Col
754
531
32
22
16
17
75
0
29
19
8
5
70
46
5
10
1
4
4
0
78
50
28
75
61
27
1065

Total
1995
593
232
193
185
180
155
123
122
88
85
39
1129
505
201
149
92
79
58
45
394
284
110
393
176
166
4253

%
43.7%
13.0%
5.1%
4.2%
4.1%
3.9%
3.4%
2.7%
2.7%
1.9%
1.9%
0.9%
24.8%
11.1%
4.4%
3.3%
2.0%
1.7%
1.3%
1.0%
8.6%
6.2%
2.4%
8.6%
3.9%
3.6%
100.0%

Abundance
Abundant
Abundant
Frequent
Frequent
Frequent
Occasional
Occasional
Occasional
Occasional
Rare
Rare
Rare
Abundant
Abundant
Frequent
Occasional
Rare
Rare
Rare
Rare
Abundant
Common
Occasional
Abundant
Occasional
Occasional

Table 4: Absolute number of directives per dataset and aggregated results as percentage and abundance following the ACFOR scale.
The percentage is the result of
T otal / N umber of analyzed AP I elements (4561). For instance, 13% of analyzed API elements
contain at least one Not Null Directive.
to us a large part of directives from the “side-effects”, “limitations” and “performance” categories
are more warnings than directives. Contrary to directives, warnings do not imply actions from the
client perspective: they highlight an implementation details or a counter-intuitive fact. This said,
the frontier between directives and warnings is fuzzy and sometimes subjective, that’s why we
think that this difference is minor. Concretely, to us directives from the “side-effects”, “limitations”
and “performance” categories are either not directives or alternative directives when alternative
solutions are given.
Also, Dekel makes a strong difference between imperative and informative directive. The former are strong requirements while the latter are more suggestions. We agree with this difference,
but we go further: we think that all directives can have different degrees of importance. However,
they are too subjective to be integrated into the taxonomy itself. However, when Dekel statically
classified each directive kind as either imperative or informative, we think that all directive kinds
can be imperative, informative or somewhere in the middle. For instance, synchronization directives, which are considered as informative by Dekel, are sometimes imperative to our opinion (e.g.
this call has to happen in a synchronized block). Hence, our taxonomy has no such dichotomy.
Finally, when compared to Dekel’s work, our subclassing related directives are more finegrained and differentiated. Dekel only mentions return value directives while we identified and
discussed nine other directive kinds based on subclassing.

5.4

Guidelines on Writing API Directives

This section presents general guidelines on how to write good API directives. Those guidelines
emerged from our experience of reading thousands of API comments as part of our empirical

23

study.89
Precisely identify the target API elements of a directive
An API directive can refer to any API element and in particular may refer to other elements than
the one where it is documented. For example, a directive that is stated in a class’ documentation
may refer to the usage of the class, but also to other classes with which the class interacts, or the
methods and fields. In this case, it is very important that the concerned API elements are precisely
identified. To avoid ambiguous references consider explicitly naming the related API elements.
Precisely specify when a directive applies
Many API directives exist that only apply if a certain condition is met, i.e. they do not state absolute
requirements such as “this method parameter must not be null”. Examples of such directives include
“Subclasses may override this method if ...” or “Instead use method X if ...”. It is very important to
always clearly state under which conditions a directive applies. Otherwise, developers must either
guess them or will just ignore the directive.
Avoid “should”
Most directives directly affect the client code. Hence, it is necessary that a directive is precise and
that it is not vague. Otherwise, the developer has to write code to accommodate for cases that
may never occur. For example, the directive “this method should not return null” indicates that the
method will probably never return null, but this is not certain. In general, during our case-study,
we found that when the syntactic patterns “should” and “should not” are used, they raise more
questions than they clarify correct usage.
Decide and document the terminology
We have experienced that there are sometimes different usages of certain important words or
expressions (e.g. “Anti-pattern” in Section 4.2.1). In order to maximize the clarity of directives,
it is important to find a consensus on a fixed terminology (words and co-locations) within the
library development team, to document it and to extensively refer to the terminology document
in the API documentation.

6

Conclusion and Future Work

In this paper, we discussed the protocol and the results of an exploratory case-study that we carried
out to determine the nature of directives in API documentation. We presented and discussed a
comprehensive taxonomy of API directives. The taxonomy was constructed by analyzing more
than 4000+ API documentation items. We found that 66.5% of the analyzed API elements contain
at least one directive from our taxonomy. All directive kinds that we found were described using
a rigorous template to facilitate comprehension, comparison and future use. Most of the directive
kinds of the taxonomy were either not precisely described or even not identified in previous work.
Given the rigor and scope of the performed analysis of API directives, this work aims to serve
as an empirical foundation for future work on related software engineering tools. Consequently,
the extracted directive data is available as electronic supplementary material and in [21]. For
example, it can serve as the foundation for the development of next-generation tools for the
automated extraction of API directives from documentation (see [40] for a seminal paper on this
topic). For such tools, this work provides the necessary information about the kind of directives
to look for and also information about the syntactic patterns that are actually used.
89 We exclusively focus on API directives and not on other concerns of API documentation (audience, writing process,
etc.). For a comprehensive discussion of these other concerns, we refer to the excellent paper written by a senior technical
writer at Sun: “API documentation from source code comments: a case study of Javadoc” [20].

24

A second set of tools – for which this work can serve as a foundation – are those related to the
formal specification and checking of API directives. As discussed in, e.g., [22], certain kinds of directives can be expressed in a machine-processable manner such that automatic checking of client
code is possible. For instance, one can imagine new Javadoc annotations such as @NumberRange.
In this case, this work helps to identify those directives that are actually used and, hence, for which
kinds of directives it is meaningful to provide corresponding support. One concrete example in
this area is Eclipse’s @noinstantiate annotation.
A third set of tools for which the presented results are important are those that try to infer
API directives. Various directives could directly be inferred from the API’s source code using static
analysis (e.g. [36] for a small subset of subclassing directives) or from client code (e.g. [31]).
For instance, code such as if (param == null) { throw new IllegalArgumentException(); } at the
beginning of a method probably implies a “Not Null” directive. While the fields of static and
dynamic analysis already contain related contributions, there is still room for devising a complete
tool chain from the automated inference of formal models to generating natural language API
documentation targeting human developers.

References
[1] C. Alexander, S. Ishikawa, and M. Silverstein. A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction. Oxford University Press, 1977.
[2] K. Arnout and B. Meyer. Uncovering hidden contracts: The .net example. Computer, 36:48–
55, 2003.
[3] N. E. Beckman, D. Kim, and J. Aldrich. An empirical study of object protocols in the wild.
In Proceedings of the European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming. Springer-Verlag,
2011.
[4] K. Bierhoff, N. E. Beckman, and J. Aldrich. Practical api protocol checking with access
permissions. In Proceedings of the 23rd European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming,
Genoa, pages 195–219, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2009. Springer-Verlag.
[5] J. Bloch. Effective Java (second edition). Addisson-Wesley, 2008.
[6] B. Bokowski. Java API design. Tutorial at the EclipseCon Conference, 2008.
[7] B. Bokowski, J. Arthorne, and J. des Rivières. Designing eclipse APIs. Tutorial at the
EclipseCon Conference, 2006.
[8] S. Bradner. Key words for use in rfcs to indicate requirement levels. Technical report, IETF,
1997.
[9] F. Brooks. The mythical man-month: Essays on software engineering. Addison-Wesley, 1995.
[10] M. Bruch, M. Mezini, and M. Monperrus. Mining subclassing directives to improve framework reuse. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. IEEE, 2010.
[11] S. Clarke. Measuring api usability. Doctor Dobbs Journal, 29(5):1–5, 2004.
[12] A. Cockburn. Writing Effective Use Cases. Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co., Inc., 1st
edition, 2000.
[13] U. Dekel. Increasing Awareness of Delocalized Information to Facilitate API Usage. PhD thesis,
Carnegie Mellon University, 2009.
[14] U. Dekel and J. D. Herbsleb. Improving API documentation usability with knowledge pushing. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Software Engineering, pages 320–
330. IEEE Computer Society, 2009.

25

[15] S. Easterbrook, J. Singer, M.-A. Storey, and D. Damian. Selecting empirical methods for
software engineering research, 2007.
[16] B. Ellis, J. Stylos, and B. Myers. The factory pattern in api design: A usability evaluation.
In Proceedings of the 29th international conference on Software Engineering, ICSE ’07, pages
302–312. IEEE Computer Society, 2007.
[17] E. Gamma, R. Helm, R. E. Johnson, and J. Vlissides. Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable
Object-Oriented Software. Addison-Wesley, 1995.
[18] D. Hovemeyer, J. Spacco, and W. Pugh. Evaluating and tuning a static analysis to find null
pointer bugs. In Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGPLAN-SIGSOFT workshop on Program analysis
for software tools and engineering, PASTE ’05, pages 13–19, New York, NY, USA, 2005. ACM.
[19] Z. Jiang and A. Hassan. Examining the evolution of code comments in postgresql. In Proceedings of the 2006 International Workshop on Mining Software Repositories, pages 179–180.
ACM, 2006.
[20] D. Kramer. API documentation from source code comments: a case study of javadoc. In
Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Computer Documentation, pages 147–
153. ACM, 1999.
[21] M. Monperrus, M. Eichberg, E. Tekes, and M. Mezini. Companion web page for "What Should
Developers Be Aware Of? An Empirical Study on the Directives of API Documentation". Url:
http://www.monperrus.net/martin/api-directives. Last accessed: October 12 2011.
[22] M. G. Nanda and S. Sinha. Accurate interprocedural null-dereference analysis for java. In
Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Software Engineering, pages 133–143.
IEEE Computer Society, 2009.
[23] Y. Padioleau, L. Tan, and Y. Zhou. Listening to programmers? taxonomies and characteristics
of comments in operating system code. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on
Software Engineering, pages 331–341. IEEE, 2009.
[24] C. Parnin and C. Treude. Measuring api documentation on the web. In Proceeding of the 2nd
international workshop on Web 2.0 for software engineering, Web2SE ’11, pages 25–30. ACM,
2011.
[25] M. Robillard. What makes APIs hard to learn? answers from developers. IEEE Software,
26(6):27–34, 2009.
[26] L. Shi, H. Zhong, T. Xie, and M. Li. An empirical study on evolution of api documentation.
In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Fundamental Approaches to Software
Engineering, FASE’11/ETAPS’11, pages 416–431. Springer-Verlag, 2011.
[27] R. Singh and N. S. Mangat. Elements of survey sampling. Springer, 1996.
[28] K. A. Smith and D. Kramer. Requirements for writing java API specifications. Technical
report, Sun, 2003.
[29] M. Storey, J. Ryall, R. Bull, D. Myers, and J. Singer. TODO or to bug. In Proceedings of
the ACM/IEEE 30th International Conference on Software Engineering, pages 251–260. IEEE,
2008.
[30] J. Stylos. Making APIs more usable with improved API designs, documentation and tools. PhD
thesis, Carnegie Mellon University, 2009.
[31] J. Stylos, A. Faulring, Z. Yang, and B. A. Myers. Improving API documentation using API
usage information. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages and HumanCentric Computing (VL/HCC’09), 2009.

26

[32] J. Stylos, B. Graf, D. Busse, C. Ziegler, R. Ehret, and J. Karstens. A case study of api redesign for improved usability. In IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-Centric
Computing, pages 189 –192, sept. 2008.
[33] J. Stylos, B. Myers, and Z. Yang. Jadeite: improving API documentation using usage information. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, pages 4429–4434. ACM, 2009.
[34] J. Stylos and B. A. Myers. The implications of method placement on api learnability. In
Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of software
engineering, SIGSOFT ’08/FSE-16, pages 105–112, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM.
[35] L. Tan, D. Yuan, G. Krishna, and Y. Zhou. icomment: Bugs or bad comments. In Proceedings
of the Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 2007.
[36] S. Thummalapenta and T. Xie. Spotweb: Detecting framework hotspots and coldspots via
mining open source code on the web. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Automated Software Engineering, pages 327–336, 2008.
[37] J. Tulach. Practical API Design: Confessions of a Java Framework Architect. Apress, 2008.
[38] R. Watson. Improving software api usability through text analysis: A case study. In Proceedings of the Professional Communication Conference, pages 1 –7, july 2009.
[39] A. Ying, J. Wright, and S. Abrams. Source code that talks: an exploration of Eclipse task
comments and their implication to repository mining. In Proceedings of Mining Software
Repositories, pages 1–5. ACM, 2005.
[40] H. Zhong, L. Zhang, T. Xie, and H. Mei. Inferring resource specifications from natural language API documentation. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pages 307–318. IEEE Computer Society, 2009.

27

