Semantics-Based Code Search
Steven P. Reiss
Department of Computer Science
Brown University
Providence, RI. 02912 USA
spr@cs.brown.edu

Abstract
Our goal is to use the vast repositories of available open source code to generate specific functions or
classes that meet a user’s specifications. The key
words here are specifications and generate. We let
users specify what they are looking for as precisely as
possible using keywords, class or method signatures,
test cases, contracts, and security constraints. Our
system then uses an open set of program transformations to map retrieved code into what the user asked
for. This approach is implemented in a prototype system for Java with a web interface.

1. Motivation
One of the first things a programmer should do
when writing new code is to find existing, working
code with the same functionality, and reuse as much of
that code as possible. With the large amount of opensource code available and the fact that most applications are not completely novel, one could imagine that
a significant amount of the code that is being written
today has been written before and is available in an
open-source repository.
Unfortunately, very little open-source code is
reused in this way. There are several reasons for this.
The first is that equivalent code is difficult to find.
Today’s code search engines, for example Google
(codesearch.google.com), Koders (koders.com), and
Krugle (krugle.org), offer only a keyword-based search
and file-level retrieval and generally have limited
utility in looking for appropriate code fragments for a
particular application. The second problem is that the
identified code rarely meets the user’s requirements. It
might not compute the same function or do the right
thing, it might have security or privacy problems, it
might be too complex to be understood or reused, it
might be too slow, or it might take slightly different
parameters or return slightly different values. Moreover, determining these differences is up to the programmer and requires understanding the retrieved
code, a difficult task, especially if there are hundreds of
poorly-documented search results. The third problem is
that even when code can be found that meets one’s

requirements, that code still has to be modified and
adapted by the programmer. Overall, programmers
often feel that the effort required here is more than the
effort of writing the code in the first place.
The problem of software reuse is an old one,
dating back to the 1960’s [21,24,25]. There are several
aspects of reuse that make it a difficult problem. These
include creating reusable code, finding code to reuse,
and adapting reusable code to the new application.
Each of these problems has been tackled in various
ways, but there has not been a comprehensive solution
that has really worked. The current state-of-the-art, as
seen in the various code search engines cited above,
ignores much of this previous work because it was
impractical either from the provider’s or the requester’s
point of view.
The use of program semantics in searching for
reusable components was common in the 1990s. Originally, this work by Wing looked at matching function
signatures [41], but was extended to matching more
complete formal semantics using λprolog and Larchbased specifications [31]. More recent work in this area
includes the specification language of the CARE
system [16], a relation-based approach that relied on
semantics-based indexing [26], and a contract-based
approach [18]. Other work in this area looked at the use
of type systems for specification [32]. Another semantic approach involved defining the behavior to searched
for. This was originally given as input-output pairs
[28], and then generalized to allow slightly more flexible specifications [7,15]. More recent work in this area
includes PARSEWeb that does static analysis on code
fragments found by a text-based code search engine
and then looks at input-output types [34]. These
approaches generally are aimed at function level reuse.
Other techniques such as program patterns [27] and
keyword programming [20] are designed to work at the
level of a code fragment.
These early techniques did not really succeed
because either they attempted to do too little or because
they attempted to do too much. Signature or type
matching does not really find items of interest,
although PARSEWeb shows that in combination with
textual search it can be somewhat effective. Full
semantic matching requires the user to specify too

much and is quite difficult to accomplish, with the
general problem being unsolvable and even approximations typically requiring the use of a theorem prover
or similar technology. Our approach uses test cases and
other programmer-friendly partial specifications that
are generally easy to check and easier to provide.
A recent test-driven approach is CodeGenie [19].
This system lets the user define test cases as part of the
development process in Eclipse and then uses the
method names and signatures from the test case to
build a query. It uses an internal search engine that
understands program structure to find code to test and
then presents the result to the user. Where this
approach concentrates on using the test cases to generate a complex structured query that will pinpoint exact
code that should work, our approach uses keywords to
find candidates, uses transformations to expand the
potential pool of solutions, and then uses semantics to
restrict that pool. Test cases and semantics have also
been used in a similar fashion for finding web services
[11,29].
Current code search tools are based on information
retrieval techniques. Early work here demonstrated that
keywords from comments and variable names were
often sufficient for finding reusable routines [12,22].
Later work here did query refinement either directly
[33], by looking at what the programmer was doing
[39,40], using an appropriate ontology [38], using
learning techniques [10], using natural language [8], or
using collaborative feedback [35]. Recent approaches,
such as Assieme [17], Sorcerer [1], and Codifier [4],
incorporate program structure and semantics as a
search basis. The utility of many of these techniques
can be seen in their use in today’s web-based search
engines. However, these techniques do not yield exact
or semantically correct matches, one of the primary
problems associated with attempting to reuse software.

2. Our approach
Our approach is to take a set of candidate solutions, attempt to transform that set into a more appropriate set, check the resultant set against the user’s
specifications, and then output all solutions that meet
these specifications. The actual logical architecture is
shown in Figure 1.
The system starts and ends with the user interface.
This is responsible for gathering the user’s specifications, initiating the search, and when done, displaying
the formatted results. The first step in the search is to
use keywords that describe the item being searched for
to obtain a set of initial solutions. A suite of program
transformations is then applied recursively to these
solutions to obtain a more complete set of candidate
solutions. These solutions are then restricted by eliminating any that don’t match static specifications such as
the signature. The next step is to augment each solution
with additional dependent code from the original file.

KeySearch

Initial
Solutions

Transforms

Keywords

Potential
Solutions

Semantics

Restrictions

UI
SPECS

Signatures

Format

Formatting

Tested
Solutions

Test cases/
Contracts

Testing

Testable
Solutions

Candidate
Solutions

Dependency
Analysis

Testing
Transforms

FIGURE 1. Architecture for semanticsbased code search
The resultant set of test solutions are then checked
against dynamic specifications such as test cases to see
if they meet the user’s criteria. Additional transformations can then be applied based on the result of testing.
Finally, all solutions that meet the specifications are
formatted using our prior work on adaptive formatting
[30] and presented through the user interface.
Our central contributions are the use of both static
and dynamic specifications to characterize the search
and the use of transformations to modify and adapt the
result of the initial search to meet the user’s needs. In
the next section we describe our specifications, how
they are collected and how they are used. Section 5.
then describes the various transformations and the
strategies for keeping the set of potential solutions tractable. Section 6. describes the process of checking the
specifications. The subsequent sections describes our
experiences, results, and future work.

3. Specifying what to search for
The key to intelligent code search is to let users
specify what they are searching for as precisely as possible. This means that they need to provide both the
syntax and the semantics of their target. Moreover,
these specifications must be easy for the user to provide; it shouldn’t take longer to define what is needed
than to write the actual code. Finally, the specifications
should be incremental. The user should be able to
easily augment or change the specifications based on
the output that the original descriptions produced.
To meet these requirements we divided the specifications into separate sections and developed a webbased user interface to support them. We start with
static specifications including a description of the
target class or method and the target signature. We next
include dynamic specifications through the use of test
cases and, optionally, contracts.
The static specifications are given in two parts.
The first is a natural language description of the class
or method. Because users are accustomed to today’s
search engines, this is done through one or more sets of

keywords. The second part of the static specification is
the class or method signature.
A description and signature alone are not enough
to specify the functionality of the target code. To do
this precisely, one must provide a semantic definition.
Such definitions take a variety of forms. Natural language semantics are too vague to be useful here. Mathematical languages such as Z [37] or Larch [14] are
another alternative. These however are still difficult to
write and more difficult to get correct, even for relatively simple processes. A more widely used approach
is to use contracts as introduced in Eiffel [23]. Contracts are typically expressed in the form of preconditions and postconditions on methods or as conditions
on a class. More recently, dynamic contracts have been
used to specify the ordering and behavior of sets of
methods of classes [3]. Contracts are relatively easy to
specify, but they don’t fully capture the semantics or
the intent of the interface. Another solution can be
found in the agile or extreme programming approach to
development where test cases are developed first and
the implementation is tested continually.
Of these various forms, test cases are generally the
easiest for the user to provide. Moreover, they are
nicely incremental in that users can look at the functions that pass the given test cases and, if they are not
what they were looking for, they can add further test
cases. Thus, the first part of our semantic specification
is a suite of test cases. For methods, our approach lets
these be given in the form of input-output pairs, code
fragments, or external files. For the input-output pairs
we support both types of object equivalence as well as
expected exceptions. For classes, we support call
sequences. Here each call invokes one of the methods
in the signature, and the results of the call can be saved
for future calls, checked or ignored.
In addition to test cases, we allow contract specifications. Here we use JML [5] as the definition language, letting the user define method preconditions and
postconditions.
Contracts and test cases only define the functional
aspects of semantics. Programmers typically care about
many other dimensions of their code including privacy,
security, threading behavior, complexity, and performance. Our goal is to handle these additional dimensions either directly as part of the specifications or
indirectly as part of the selection and presentation process.
We currently support the specification of security
constraints on the methods and classes that are being
searched for. This is done using the Java security
model [13]. The user can specify Java security conditions for files, sockets, AWT/Swing, system properties,
and run time behaviors. Other nonfunctional semantics
are supported by letting the user sort the resultant code
fragments by code size, code complexity, or performance on the test cases.

Our initial front end is web-based, built using the
Google Web Toolkit [9]; it can be seen in Figure 2. At
the top of the window the user indicates whether they
are looking for a class or a method, whether to look
locally or using on the web, and if on the web, which
external code search engine to use. The user also provides keywords much as they would for existing search
engines.
Below this is a box where the user provides the
actual semantics describing the target. Here the user
first provides the signature. The signature is checked
by the server and updated with full type names and
parameter names if necessary. Below the signature, the
user can enter test cases. The CALL type test cases
shown here let the user set the parameters and the
expected return value. The system supports abbreviated
syntax for arrays, collections and maps, doesn’t require
quoted strings, and also lets the user enter appropriate
code fragments. The code entered is semantically
checked by the back end before the search.
Contracts and security constraints are entered by
clicking on the appropriate button in the method box
and filling in the resultant forms.
The results are displayed at the bottom of the
window. Here the user can change the sort order and
the formatting style. The result display includes the
code source and the licensing or copyright information.
The interface is designed to be adaptable so that
the user can easily add a new test case or change the
keywords and see the modified results.

4. Finding the initial solutions
The first step in using this semantic information is
to find an initial set of candidate solutions. A solution
in our system consists of 1) the abstract syntax tree for
the file the target is derived from; 2) the node in this
syntax tree corresponding to the target method or class;
3) a set of auxiliary abstract syntax tree nodes needed
to resolve dependencies; 4) a set of flags describing the
solution state; and 5) a score.
We use Eclipse to build the basic abstract syntax
trees. We have our own semantic analyzer operating
over these trees and adding annotations representing
type, method, and variable definitions and uses. This
was needed because we needed to work outside of an
Eclipse project, we needed an analyzer that was very
forgiving since we are essentially compiling files
without the proper compilation context, and we needed
to maintain multiple representations of the same class.
While solutions are represented as abstract syntax
trees, only the initial solutions are stored that way to
save memory. Any derived solution is stored as a text
delta from its predecessor, and the corresponding
abstract syntax tree is generated on demand and cached
while the solution is being processed.
The initial set of candidate solutions is obtained by
using a code search engine to find a set of files that

FIGURE 2. Code search web-based user interface.
match the user-specified keywords. This is done for the
Google, Krugle, and Koders web code search engines.
using modules that simulate a query, interpret the
results, and then obtain the actual source files for the
first 100-200 reported matches. In addition, we have
developed our own desktop code search engine, Labrador, based on Compass [2], for local search.
For each selected file, we extract a set of initial
solutions. When searching for a method, this is the set
of all methods in the file that have associated code. For
a class, it is the set of all classes or inner classes in the
file. We set the score of the solution to be the rank of
the original file in the search results.

5. Transformations
The next step is to take this initial set of solutions
and expand it to produce solutions that match the user’s
specifications. This is done using transformations.
A transformation is a mapping from a solution to a
possibly empty set of additional solutions. It consists
of a name, a set of conditions that determine when the
transformation is applicable, and a set of mapping
objects, each of which takes the abstract syntax tree of
the original solution and produces an edited tree representing a new solution. The conditions are used to
control the potential exponential blowup in the number
of solutions to consider. Editing is accomplished using
Eclipse’s abstract syntax tree rewriting capabilities.

The set of transformations was chosen to let the
system extract, convert, and otherwise manipulate the
initial solutions into a form that meets the programmer’s specifications. While most of the transformations
preserve the original semantics, some will change the
program’s behavior. Because all solutions are eventually tested, this is not a problem. Moreover, these transformations have proven themselves useful.

5.1 Signature transforms
The set of transformations can be divided into different groups. The first group include the simple transformations that are needed to make the solution
conform to the given signature. These include:
NAME: This transformation refactors the name of the
candidate method to the name given by the input if the
return type, parameters, and exceptions thrown for the
method match the required signature.
RETURN: This transformation changes the return
type of the candidate method to that of the given signature. It can only be applied if the parameter types are
correct, and if the desired return type is either void or is
compatible with the declared type.
PARAMETER TYPES: This transformation will
replace the parameter types of the candidate method
with types from the signature if they are compatible.

PARAMETER ORDER: This transformation will
change the order of the parameters for the candidate
method for all orders that match the signature types.
EXCEPTION: This transformation will change the
exception types from those given in the original code to
those given by the signature. It both changes the
method declaration and any internal throw statements
as needed. It is only applied if the method has the
correct parameter types and return type and if there are
no internal calls that would require an exception to be
thrown.
STATIC: This transformation will convert the given
method to a static method if that is what is required by
the signature and if the method does not access any
non-static fields or methods.
While the above transformations are described in
terms of methods, they also work for solutions that represent classes. In the class case, each transformation is
applied for each pairing of a method of the class and
method signature for the class.

5.2 Generative transforms
The second set of transformations are designed to
build new solutions from existing code. These are
central to the generative techniques that are the focus
of our search strategy. More often then not, the functionality that one programmer wants as a single function does not match exactly what another programmer
has done. Code for tokenizing command line arguments can be hidden in a routine that both computes
the tokenization and executes the result; a program that
generates roman numerals might take extra parameters
indicating whether to use upper or lower case and how
to handle special cases such as four; an algorithm
might be specialized for a specific class in the original
application, but could have been made generic.
The transformations we have defined are able to
handle these and related cases. As we uncover more
variations that are needed, new generative transformations can be added. These transformations include:
CHUNK: This transformation attempts to find segments of the candidate method that might meet the
user’s specifications. The motivation here is that the
desired functionality might be a subset of a method
rather than the whole method.
This transform works in stages. It first identifies all
the variables used in the method and their types. Next it
determines for each top-level statement of the method
which variables are set, which variables are created,
and which variables are used. From this information it
is able to identify the set of statements that set a value
of return type. For each such statement, the transformation effectively does a backward slice, adding prior
statements that are required one by one. After each
statement is added, the set of open variables is checked.
If this set only contains variables of the desired param-

eterized types, then a new method is created with the
dependent statements and the target statement. When
creating this method the transformation handles adding
any required declarations and initialization, changing
return statements appropriately, and setting up the
proper method signature and body.
EXTRA PARAMETERS: This transformation looks
for methods that have the proper return type, have
parameters that include the target types, and have extra
parameters. It replaces each of the extra parameters
with an initial assignment statement.
The tricky part of this transformation is determining what value to assign to the replaced parameter. This
is done based on the parameter type and on the contents of the method. For boolean parameters, both true
and false are tried; for numeric types, both 1 and 0 are
tried; for object types null is used. If an array or collection is being passed, then its size is used. In addition,
the code for the method is scanned to look for conditionals and switch statements that involve the given
value. Any values used in those comparisons are also
tried as candidate replacements.
GENERALIZE: This transformation attempts to
replace user-defined types throughout a class with the
types used in the user’s specifications. For example, if
the actual code works on an internal class, but the specifications asked for an instance of java.lang.Object or
java.lang.String, this transformation would attempt to
change the method to use the system class. This is done
by first checking if the actual class used in the code can
be generalized by seeing if its methods and fields are
actually used in the identified method.

5.3 Compilation transforms
The third set of transformations are used to make
the code compile correctly in the test environment.
These transformation can also be viewed as generative
in that they attempt to adapt the original code to meet
the new environment by removing unnecessary functionality or ensuring existing functionality is consistent
with what the user wants. The current transformations
here include:
IMPLEMENTS: This
transformation
removes
unneeded implements clauses on the target class. This
is required since the system will eliminate methods that
are not part or required by the user’s specification.
REMOVE UNDEF: This transformation removes
any statements from the candidate method that access
undefined fields, methods or classes. It will not remove
return statements or the last statement in a method.
This transformation has been useful in eliminating
extra statements used for debugging, logging, and additional error checking from otherwise acceptable code.
STATIC CLASS: This transformation ensures that all
target classes are static classes, even if they were
derived from an internal non-static class.

THROW: This transformation replaces throw statements in the code that throw exceptions that are not
part of the user’s defined signature either with exceptions that the user has declared or with java.lang.Error.

5.4 Testing transforms
The final set of transformations are applied after
testing and attempt to modify the method based on the
test results. The one transformation here handles a
variety of different cases:
FIX RETURN: This transformation looks at the test
results and checks if there is a simple transformation
that will convert the actual results into the desired ones.
Currently it handles inverting boolean returns, changing the case of string results, and the addition of a constant value to integer results. Multiple test cases are
required for the boolean and numeric transforms.

5.5 Transform application
The transformations are applied repeatedly in
stages to the set of solutions until no new solutions are
found. Each solution is only considered once during
each stage. When it is considered, all the potential
transformations for that stage are applied, and then the
solution is checked to see if it should be retained or discarded. The number of solutions produced by each
stage is kept under control by using the appropriate
conditions on the transformations, eliminating duplicate solutions, and removing infeasible solutions after
they have been candidates for transformation.
We currently support three stages. The initial stage
handles transformations that involve basic setup such
as STATIC CLASS. Solutions are eliminated here only
if they directly involve non-static classes.The normal
stage handles the other transformations except for FIX
RETURN. Solutions that don’t match the specified signature are eliminated at this point after they are considered by all available transformations. The final stage
involves transformations based on test results such as
FIX RETURN. Transformations that did not pass the
test cases are eliminated here after they have been considered by this transformation.
Another approach used to keeping the number of
solutions under control is to limit the number of active
solutions at each phase. We limit the number of initial
solutions (4000), and the number of solutions that
remain active during the normal stage (1000), as well
as the number of solutions that will actually be tested
(250). Where there are more potential solutions, the
score associated with the solution is used for elimination. In practice, these limits are rarely reached.

6. Testing
The result of applying all but the final stage of
transformations is a set of solutions that have the signa-

ture specified by the user. The next stage in our system
involves seeing if these potential solutions pass the test
cases, contracts, and other semantic conditions given
by the user.
In order to do testing however, we need to first
ensure that the identified code will compile. This is
done during a dependency analysis phase.
This phase serves multiple purposes. Its primary
aim is to use information from the abstract syntax tree
to identify transitively any helper methods, inner
classes, and fields that are referenced by the target
code. If the user is searching for a method, these are
added to the solution. If the user is searching for a
class, the system has identified a class that has at least
the methods provided by the user. In this case, the job
of dependency analysis is to remove from the class all
declarations that are not required by the solution.
Another job of dependency analysis is to eliminate
any solutions that will not compile because they
contain undefined references. The final job of this analysis is to identify the set of system classes that are used
by the code so that appropriate import statements can
be generated for compilation and testing.
The actual testing is done by generating a Java
source file containing the identified code, the identified
helper code, imports clauses, and the test cases, and
then using ant and junit.
Contract checking is handled during this testing
process. First, the contract information associated with
a method is inserted as JML annotations in the appropriate code. Second, jmlc is used to compile. Then the
tests are run using the appropriate JML libraries.
Each tested solution is examined to see if it succeeded or if it failed due to compilation errors, testing
errors, or just failed test cases. The FIX RETURN
transformation is applied to any solution where all the
test cases ran, but some failed. Any new solutions that
this transformation then builds are tested in a new
dependency and testing pass.

7. Experience
We have used our code search system for a variety
of different examples some of which are shown in
Table 1. While most of these cases are searching for a
particular method, the last three, as noted by their signatures, are searching for a class.
The two tokenize examples define a function that
takes a string and divides it into words. The second one
handles both single and double quotes as would be
done on a shell command line. This can be seen in the
test cases shown in Table 2. The robots.txt example is
looking for a function that checks robots.txt for a URL
to see if that URL is crawlable.
One thing to note from these examples is the small
number of test cases that are sufficient for searching.
The use of keywords limits the search to files that
might be relevant. The odds of a random function

Name
Simple Tokenizer

Keywords

Robots.txt
Log2
To Roman
From Roman
Primes
Perfect Numbers
Day of Week
Easter

tokenize quote
command tokenize split argument
quote list
robots.txt
log base
roman numeral
roman numeral number conversion
prime number
“perfect number”
day of the week
Easter date holiday year

Multimap

multiset, multimap

Union-Find

union find

Text Delta

text delta

Quote Tokenizer

Signature
List<String> tokenize(String)
List tokenize(String)
boolean check(URL)
int log2(int)
String toRoman(int)
int convert(String)
boolean checkPrime(int)
boolean isPerfect(int)
String dayOfWeek(String date)
Date computeEaster(int);
class MultiMap {
Multimap();
void add(Object);
int count(Object);
}
class UnionFind {
UnionFind();
void add(Object);
Object find(Object);
void union(Object,Object);
}
class TextDelta {
TextDelta(String newstr,String oldstr);
String apply(String old)
}

TABLE 1. Examples for semantic searching
returning the right results in these cases is quite small.
found in these files. The seventh column indicates the
So far we have found that about one solution in ten is
total number of solutions considered. This reflects all
not what we were searching for. For example, a functhe new solutions that were generated by the various
tion that returns the number of low order zeros rather
transformations. The eighth column indicates the
than the log or a function that only converts to roman
number of solutions that had the proper signature and
numerals for numbers up to fifty. However, such solucould be tested. The final column indicates the number
tions are easy to spot and could be eliminated with one
of solutions found. In several cases, the system found
additional test case.
several variations of the same solution, each slightly
The class examples are a bit more complex. The
different due to different transformations. A summary
first represents a set that counts the instances of its eleof the transformations that were used in the generated
ments. The second represents an implementation of the
results for these examples is shown in Table 5.
union-find set algorithm. For the final one, the class is
Our experiments show several things. First, we
supposed to contain a compact representation of the
have found that the system works in the sense that if
difference between its two input strings and then regenone of the source files located based on the keyword
erate the output string given this representation and the
search contains code that can be transformed into the
original input. The test cases for these are given as a
appropriate form using the existing transformations,
sequence of calls as shown in Table 3.
then that code will be found.
A summary of our results for these examples is
This highly qualified statement points out some of
shown in Table 4. The search engines used in the tests
the characteristics of our approach. First, the system is
are arbitrary. The third column gives the run time in
highly dependent on being able to find the source files
seconds using only one thread to do all the processing.
that contain appropriate code. Keywords provide a
The fourth column shows the run time using 8 threads
starting point, but we still found instances where our
on a 8-core machine and illustrates that significant
vocabulary and the vocabulary of the original author
speed up can be obtained by parallelizing the search
differed so that we did not find any appropriate code.
process. The fifth column indicates the number of files
For those cases where we obtained no results, we went
found by the given search engines. The sixth column
through the first several pages of standard code search
indicates the number of initial solutions that were

Test Cases

Name
Simple Tokenizer
Quote Tokenizer

Robots.txt

Log2
To Roman
From Roman
Primes

Perfect Numbers
Day of Week
Easter

Input

Output

“this is a test”
“this is a test”

[ “this”, “is”, “a”, “test” ]
[ “this”, “is”, “a”, “test” ]
[ “this”, “is”, “a”, “test with”, “quoted”,
“this is a ‘test with’ quoted \”string types\” in it”
“string types”, “in”, it” ]
“http://www.cs.brown.edu/people/spr”
true
“http://www.cnn.com/topics”
true
“http://www.nytimes.com/college/students”
false
0
RuntimeException
1
0
4
2
32
5
13
xiii
VIII
8
xxvi
26
5
true
39
false
59
true
6
true
12
false
28
true
“08/07/08”
“Thursday”
2008
new Date(108,2,23)

TABLE 2. Test cases for method examples
MultiMap

Union-Find

MultiMap rslt = new MultiMap();
rslt.add(“Hello”);
rslt.add(“Tata”);
rslt.add(“Hello”);
rslt.add(“Goodbye”);
rslt.add(“Tata”);
rslt.add(“Tata:);
rslt.count(“Unknown”) == 0
rslt.count(“Hello”) == 2
rslt.count(“Tata”) == 3
rslt.count(“Goodbye”) == 1

UnionFind set = new UnionFind();
set.add(“abc”);
set.add(“def”);
set.add(“ghi”);
set.find(“abc”) == “abc”
set.union(“abc”,”def”);
set.find(“def”) == “abc”

Text Delta

TextDelta t = new
TextDelta(“abcdef”, “abxef”);
t.apply(“abxef”) == “abcdef”

TABLE 3. Test cases for class search examples
output and verified that there were no functions there
that even came close to meeting our criteria.
Second, the set of transformations is powerful but
incomplete. The system will become more effective as
we add more transformations. One particular problem
arises with handling generics since about half of the
currently available open-source code assumes Java 5
and uses generics and the other half only assumes Java
1.4 and does not. Additional transformations are relatively easy to encode.

Third, the number of total solutions considered
tends to be within a small multiple of the number of
initial solutions, often within two. This shows that the
conditions on the transformations and the continual
pruning we use are effective. Currently, the most significant increases occur during searching for a class
where each of the methods needs to be transformed
individually. We also found that the test cases we have
looked at do an average of six levels of transformations, with the maximum being one of the class cases
with thirteen.

Example

1-thread
Time

8-thread # Source
Time
Files

#Initial
#Total
# Tests
Solutions Solutions Run

#Results
Found

72.725

28.956

138

3860

4159

35

14

22.267

15.854

4

164

213

10

6

82.889

27.267

124

145

883

20

1

165.414

45.750

100

1464

1771

101

1

107.526

32.664

56

888

1010

48

6

266.671

107.819

38

2730

3244

140

3

199.020

50.587

228

4000

5266

119

14

34.811
175.939
11.888

12.421
52.445
10.658

28
89
6

92
1628
72

113
2143
75

13
144
1

5
0
1

235.464

113.499

165

231

2664

31

2

467.540

168.870

149

416

6248

11

1

96.363

37.749

249

443

1649

3

1

Engines

Simple Tokenizer Labrador
Koders,
Quote Tokenizer
Labrador
Krugle,
Robots.txt
Labrador
Log2
Google
Koders,
To Roman
Labrador
From Roman
Google
Google,
Primes
Labrador
Perfect Numbers Google
Day of Week
Labrador
Easter
Koders
Google,
Multimap
Labrador
Union-Find
Labrador
Google,
Text Delta
Labrador

THROWS

FIX RETURN

STATIC CLASS

REMOVE UNDEF

IMPLEMENTS

X
X

GENERALIZE

X

EXTRA PARAM

CHUNK

PARAM ORDER

X

X

X

X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

PARAM TYPES

X
X

STATIC

X
X
X

EXCEPTION

Simple Tokenizer
Quote Tokenizer
Robots.txt
Log2
To Roman
From Roman
Primes
Perfect Numbers
Day of Week
Easter
Multimap
Union-Find
Text Delta

RETURN

Name

NAME

TABLE 4. Search results summary

X

X
X

X

X

X
X

X
X

X
X

X
X

X

X
X

TABLE 5. Transformations used to generate results
The time the system takes varies considerably. A
significant portion of the time is dependent on needing
to run the various test cases rather than statically eliminating unworkable solutions. Examples with very
common signatures generally yield a much larger set of
possible solutions that then have to be eliminated.
Moreover, the testing process is the easiest to parallel-

ize and, especially because it is mainly I/O bound, can
achieve significant speed up. The overhead of using
existing search engines varies from five to twenty
seconds depending on the search engine used and the
number of results that are retrieved. This is especially
true for web-based engines where we need to make a
separate web request not only to get the search results,

but also for each resultant file. The overhead in generating and maintaining solutions as annotated abstract
syntax trees is generally small, but is significant in
those examples that involve large source files. Overall,
we have not worked significantly on performance
issues and expect that we can achieve meaningful
speed ups with the current approach.
Finally, we have noted that while there is a lot of
open source code available, the code that a programmer actually wants for an application is probably not
available per se. We only found one instance of the
Easter computation, for example. However, there are
many programs out there that compute the date of
Easter -- they just take their inputs and outputs in significantly different forms than what was asked for. For
the Text Delta example, code could be found that computed edit differences, but nothing that took a constructor and built and object that could then be latter used
(the one instance found was the code we wrote when
we failed to find external code to do the task).
The system is currently available on the web at
http://conifer.cs.brown.edu/s6.

8. Future work
We are working on several ways of extending this
work. These include additional transforms, using
context information, additional semantics, and an
improved user interface.
By looking at different examples and examining
what programmers actually do when converting open
source code into code for their project, we can identify
other transformations that will be helpful and that can
be incorporated into the system. Some of these will
deal with advanced type conversions, for example converting between arrays and collections or handling
generics. Others will deal with removing unwanted
dependencies, especially dependencies that cannot be
resolved. A third set will deal with using classes to represent methods. A fourth set will deal with different
solution approaches, for example returning a list or
providing an iterator.
One of the drawbacks of our approach is that the
function being searched for has to compile independently. Often, when programmers search, they are
looking for code that will fit into an existing package,
using existing classes and interfaces. CodeGenie
addresses this by working inside Eclipse [19]. We will
extend our approach so that the user can specify an
appropriate context in which the new code should work
and then use this context as part of the search process,
using either Eclipse or a web-based interface. Transformations will be used to have the identified code use
classes and methods from the given context, handling
mappings between user classes and classes in the identified code as in [36].
Context information also flows the other way. The
files that we find in the keyword search are generally

part of a large package. We should be able to include
dependencies from these additional files in constructing a viable solution.
Our notion of semantic search currently only
handles a limited set of semantics. We want to enrich
this to further improve what the user can specify and
provide additional confidence in the results. Here we
are looking into doing formal JML-based checking for
valid solutions; using the initial JML specifications to
generate test cases [6]; letting the user specify security
conditions along the lines of Java security policies;
letting the user specify threading conditions, specifying
whether the code should be thread-safe and what
should be externally synchronized; and letting the user
specify data flow constraints.
Finally, we are continuing to work on the user
interface, attempting to make it as easy as possible for
the user to specify what they are looking for. Here we
are concentrating on making it easier for the user to
provide more complex test cases; making the interface
more interactive so the user can easily see the effects of
additional test cases or of modifying the keywords;
augmenting search keywords with information from
the test cases; and letting the user save test cases.
These continuing efforts are based on the success
of the approach even in its current form. Our work
demonstrates that semantics-based search is a more
promising approach than traditional keyword based
search. Our experience shows that only a small number
of easily defined test cases are needed to properly identify appropriate code. Our system demonstrates that a
transformation-based approach is feasible and can
provide results that the programmer can immediately
use. Finally, our approach is practical.

9. Acknowledgements
This work is supported by the National Science
Foundation through grant CCR0613162. J. Travis
Webb worked on the Labrador search engine; Christina
Salvatore worked on the code formatter.

10. References
1. Sushil Bajracharya, Trung Ngo, Erik Linstead, Yimeng
Dou, Paul Rigor, Pierre Baldi, and Cristina Lopes,
“Sourcerer: a search engine for open source code supporting
structure-based search,” Proc. OOPSLA 2006, pp. 682-682
(October 2006).
2. Shay Banon and Alan Hardy, “Compass Reference
Documentation,” http://www.compass-project.org/docs/1.2.2/
reference/pdf/compass- reference.pdf, (2008).
3. Mike Barnett and Wolfram Schulte, “The ABCs of
specification: AsmL, behavior, and components,”
Informatica Vol. 25(4)(November 2001).
4. Andrew Begel, “Codifier: a programmer-centric search
user interface,” Workshop on Human-Coputer Interaction
and Information Retrieval, (October 2007).
5. Lilian Burdy, Yoonsik Cheon, David Cok, Michael Ernst,
Joe Kiniry, Gary T. Leavens, K. Rustan, M. Leino, and Erik

Poll, “An overview of JML tools and applications,” Intl.
Journal on Software Tools for Technology Transfer Vol. 7(3)
pp. 212-232 (June 2005).
6. Yoonsik Cheon and Carlos E. Rubio-Medrano, “Random
test data generation for Java classes annotated with JML
specifications,” SERP Vol. 11 pp. 385-392 (June 2007).
7. Shih-Chien Chou, Jen-Yen Chen, and Chyan-Goei
Chung, “A behavior-based classification and retrieval
technique for object-oriented specification reuse,” Software
Practice and Experience Vol. 26(7) pp. 815-832 (July 1996).
8. Shih-Chien Chou and Yuan-Chien Chen, “Retrieving
reusable components with variation points from software
product lines,” Information Processing Letters Vol. 99 pp.
106-110 (2006).
9. Google Corporation, “Google Web Toolkit
Documentation,” http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/
overview.html, (2008).
10. Christopher G. Drummond, Dan Ionescu, and Robert C.
Holte, “A learning agent that assists the browsing of software
libraries,” IEEE Trans. on Software Engineering Vol. 26(12)
pp. 1179-1196 (December 2000).
11. Michael D. Ernst, Raimondas Lencevisius, and Jeff H.
Perkins, “Detection of web service substitutability and
composability,” WS-MaTe 2006: International Workshop on
Web Services -- Modeling and Testing, pp. 123-135 (June
2006).
12. William B. Frakes and Thomas P. Pole, “An empiracal
study of representation methods for reusable software
components,” IEEE Trans. on Software Engineering Vol.
20(8) pp. 617-630 (August 1994).

constructing software libraries,” IEEE Trans. on Software
Engineering Vol. 17(8) pp. 800-813 (August 1991).
23. Bertrand Meyer, Object-Oriented Software Construction,
Prentice-Hall (1988).
24. A. Mili, R. Mili, and R. T. Mittermeir, “A survey of
software reuse libraries,” Annals of Software Engineering
Vol. 5 pp. 349-414 (1998).
25. Hafdeh Mili, Fatma Mili, and Ali Mili, “Reusing
software: issues and reseach directions,” IEEE Trans. on
Software Engineering Vol. 21(6) pp. 528-562 (June 1995).
26. Rym Mili, Ali Mili, and Roland T. Mittermeir, “Storing
and retrieving software components: a refinement based
system,” IEEE Trans. on Software Engineering Vol.
23(7)(July 1997).
27. Santanu Paul and Atul Prakash, “A framework for source
code search using program patterns,” IEEE Trans. on
Software Engineering Vol. 20(6) pp. 463-475 (June 1994).
28. Andy Podgurski and Lynn Pierce, “Retrieving reusable
software by sampling behavior,” ACM Trans. on Software
Engineering and Methodology Vol. 2(3) pp. 286-303 (July
1993).
29. Steven P. Reiss, “A component model for Internet-scale
applications,” Proc. ASE 2005, pp. 34-43 (November 2005).
30. Steven P. Reiss, “Automatic code stylizing,” Proc. ASE
’07, pp. 74-83 (November 2007).
31. Eugene J. Rollins and Jeannette M. Wing,
“Specifications as search keys for software libraries,” Proc.
8th Intl. Conf. on Logic Programming, pp. 173-187 (1991).

13. Li Gong, “Java 2 platform security architecture,” Sun
Microsystems (http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/guide/
security/spec/security- spec.doc.html), (2002).

32. Colin Runciman and Ian Toyn, “Retrieving re-usable
software components by polymorphic type,” Proc. 4th Intl.
Conf. on Functional Programming Languages and Computer
Architecture, pp. 166-173 (1989).

14. J. V. Guttag, J. J. Horning, and J. M. Wing, “The Larch
family of specification languages,” IEEE Software Vol. 2(5)
pp. 24-36 (March 1985).

33. Vijayan Sugumaran and Veda C. Storey, “A semanticbased approach to component retrieval,” Advances in
Information Systems Vol. 34(3) pp. 8-24 (2003).

15. Robert J. Hall, “Generalized behavior-based retrieval,”
Proc ICSE’93, pp. 371-380 (May 1993).

34. Suresh Thummalapenta and Tao Xie, “PARSEWeb: a
programmer assistant for reusing open source code on the
web,” Proc. ASE’07, pp. 204-213 (November 2007).

16. David Hemer and Peter Lindsay, “Supporting
component-based reuse in CARE,” Australian Computer
Science Communications Vol. 24(1) pp. 95-104 (2002).
17. Raphael Hoffmann and James Fogarty, “Assieme: finding
and leveraging implicit references in a web search interface
for programmers,” Proc. UIST 2007, pp. 13-22 (October
2007).
18. Jun-Jang Jeng and Betty H. C. Cheng, “Specification
matching for software reuse: a foundation,” Proc. ACM
Symp. on Software Reuse, pp. 97-105 (April 1995).
19. Otavio Lemos, Sushil Bajracharya, Joel Ossher, Ricardo
Morla, Paulo Masiero, Pierre Baldi, and Cristina Lopes,
“CodeGenie: using test-cases to search and reuse source
code,” ASE ’07, pp. 525-526 (November 2007).
20. Greg Little and Robert C. Miller, “Keyword
programming in Java,” Proc. ASE 2007, pp. 84-93
(November 2007).
21. Daniel Lucredio, Antonio Franciso do Prado, and
Eduardo Santana de Almeida, “A survey of software
components search and retrieval,” Proc. EUROMICRO’04,
pp. 152-159 (2004).
22. Yoelle S. Maarek, Daniel M. Berry, and Gail E. Kaiser,
“An information retrieval approach for automatically

35. Taciana A. Vanderlei, Frederico A. Durao, Alexandre C.
Martins, Vinicius C. Garcia, Eduardo S. Almeida, and Silvio
R. de L. Meira, “A cooperative classification mechanism for
search and retrieval software components,” Proc SAC’07, pp.
866-871 (March 2007).
36. Yiqiao Wang and Eleni Stroulia, “Semantic structure
matching for assessing web-service similarity,” ServiceOriented Computing: ICSOC 2003, pp. 194-207 (2003).
37. J. B. Wordsworth, Software Development with Z,
Addison-Wesley (1992).
38. Haining Yao and Letha Etzkorn, “Towards a semanticbased approach for software reusable component
classification and retrieval,” ACMSE’04, pp. 110-115 (April
2004).
39. Yunwen Ye and Gerhard Fischer, “Supporting reuse by
delivering task- relevant and personalized information,” Proc.
ICSE’02, pp. 513-523 (May 2002).
40. Yunwen Ye, “Programming with an intelligent agent,”
IEEE Intelligent Systems Vol. 18(3) pp. 43-47 (May 2003).
41. Amy Moormann Zaremski and Jeannette M. Wing,
“Signature matching: a key to reuse,” Software Engineering
Notes Vol. 18(5) pp. 182-190 (December 1993).

